
1. East Mediterr Health J. 2014 Jan 9;19 Suppl 3:S89-97.

Body mass index changes during highly active antiretroviral therapy in Nigeria.

Denue BA(1), Ikunaiye PN(2), Denue CB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Borno State,
Nigeria.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Maiduguri, Maiduguri,
Borno State, Nigeria.
(3)Department of Geography, University of Maiduguri, Maiduguri, Borno State,
Nigeria.

Wasting remains an important condition in HIV-infected patients receiving highly 
active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). In this study, 120 patients with newly
diagnosed HIV infection were prospectively evaluated to determine the effect of
HAART on body mass index (BMI). Eighty-nine (83.1%) patients gained weight, 5
(4.7%) had no weight change, and 13 (12.2%) lost weight. There was a significant 
increase in overweight and obese patients. On multivariate analysis, time-updated
CD4 count and higher baseline BMI were associated with a greater increase in BMI.
Anaemia at diagnosis was associated with a significant increase in BMI. There
were no significant effects of age, sex, disease severity, viral load or
educational status on BMI changes. About 27% of the HIV patients presented with
weight loss, which emphasizes that weight loss and wasting remain important
AIDS-defining conditions, despite the advent of HAART. A linear association was
observed between time-updated CD4 count and increase in BMI. The association
between time-updated CD4 count and greater increase in BMI suggests that BMI
could be a surrogate for CD4 count in monitoring treatment response in
resource-limited settings.

Publisher: تغيرات منسب كتلة الجسم أثناء العلاج الشديد المفعول بمضادات الفيروسات
القهقرية في نيجيريابالا أكاو دينو، ناصيرو إبراهيم إكوناي، سيسيلا بالا أكاو دينولا
يزال الهزال حالة مهمة يعاني منها الأفراد المصابون بفيروس الإيدز ممن يتلقون العلاج
الشديد المفعول بمضادات الفيروسات القهقرية. وفي هذه الدراسة جرى التقييم مقدَّماً ل
120 مريضاً ممن تم تشخيص حالاتهم حديثاً بالإيدز لتحديد أثر العلاج الشديد المفعول
بمضادات الفيروسات القهقرية على منسب كتلة الجسم. وقد زاد وزن 83.1% من المرضى،
بينما لم يتغير وزن 4.7% منهم وفقد 13.2% منهم الوزن. وكانت هناك زيادة يُعتدُّ بها 
في أوساط المرضى الذين يعانون من فرط الوزن والسمنة. ووفقاً للتحليل المتعدد
المتغيرات، فقد ارتبط تعداد حديث للخلايا التائية CD4 ومنسب أكثر ارتفاعاً لكتلة
الجسم بزيادة أكبر في منسب كتلة الجسم. وترابَطَ فقر الدم عند التشخيص بزيادة يُعتدّ
بها في منسب كتلة الجسم. ولم تلاحظ آثار يُعتدّ بها للعمر أو الجنس أو درجة وخامة
المرض أو الحمل الفيروسي أو التعليم على إحداث تغيرات في منسب كتلة الجسم. وظهر على 
حوالي 27% من المصابين بفيروس العوز المناعي البشري علامات فقد الوزن، وهو ما يؤكد
على أهمية فقد الوزن والهزال باعتبارهما حالتين من الحالات المحددة والمعرفة للإيدز 
على الرغم من ظهور العلاج الشديد المفعول بمضادات الفيروسات القهقرية. ولوحظ ترابط
خطي بين التعداد الحديث للخلايا التائية والزيادة في منسب كتلة الجسم. ويشير
الارتباط بين التعداد الحديث للخلايا التائية وزيادة أكبر في منسب كتلة الجسم إلى
إمكانية اعتبار منسب كتلة الجسم بديلاً عن تعداد الخلايا التائية في رصد الاستجابة
للعلاج في الأوساط ذات الموارد المحدودة.Publisher: Modifications de l’indice de
masse corporelle pendant le traitement antirétroviral hautement actif au
Nigéria.L’émaciation est un problème de santé important chez les patients
infectés par le VIH sous traitement antirétroviral hautement actif. Dans la
présente étude, 120 patients auxquels on a récemment diagnostiqué une infection à
VIH ont été évalués de manière prospective pour déterminer l’effet du traitement 
antirétroviral hautement actif sur l’indice de masse corporelle (IMC).
Quatre-vingt-un patients (83,1 %) ont pris du poids, cinq patients (4,7 %) ont
conservé le même poids et treize patients (12,2 %) ont maigri. Le nombre de
patients en surpoids ou obèses s’est fortement accru. À l’analyse multivariée, la
numération récente des CD4 et un IMC initial plus élevé étaient corrélés à une
plus grande augmentation de l’IMC. L’anémie lors du diagnostic était associée à
une hausse importante de l’IMC. L’âge, le sexe, la sévérité de la maladie, la
charge virale ou le niveau d’études n’avaient pas d’effets significatifs sur
l’évolution de l’IMC. Près d’un quart des patients infectés par le VIH avaient
maigri, ce qui souligne que la perte de poids et l’émaciation restent des
manifestations importantes définissant le sida, malgré l’introduction du
traitement antirétroviral hautement actif. Nous avons observé une association
linéaire entre la numération récente des CD4 et l’augmentation de l’IMC. Cette
association semble indiquer que l’IMC pourrait remplacer la numération des CD4
pour ce qui est du suivi de la réaction au traitement dans les contextes où les
ressources sont limitées.

PMID: 24995767 


2. Bull World Health Organ. 2014 Mar 1;92(3):162-70. doi: 10.2471/BLT.13.122523.
Epub 2014 Jan 10.

The incremental cost of switching from Option B to Option B+ for the prevention
of mother-to-child transmission of HIV.

O'Brien L(1), Shaffer N(2), Sangrujee N(1), Abimbola TO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Health Economics, Systems and Integration Branch, Division of Global HIV/AIDS,
Center for Global Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, MS-E30,
1600 Clifton Rd, Atlanta GA 30333, United States of America .
(2)Department of HIV/AIDS, World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland .

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost over 5 years of a policy switch from 
the Option B to the Option B+ protocol for the prevention of mother-to-child
transmission (PMTCT) of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
METHODS: Data from cost studies and other published sources were used to
determine the cost, per woman and per cohort (1000 breastfeeding and 1000
non-breastfeeding women), of switching from Option B (maternal triple
antiretroviral [ARV] regimen during pregnancy and breastfeeding plus daily
nevirapine for the infant for 6 weeks) to Option B+ (maternal triple ARV regimen 
initiated during pregnancy and continued for life). The variables used to model
the different scenarios were maternal CD4+ T lymphocyte (CD4+ cell) count
(350-500 versus > 500 cells/µl), rate of decline in CD4+ cells (average, rapid,
slow), breastfeeding status (yes, no) and breastfeeding duration (12, 18 or 24
months).
FINDINGS: For women with CD4+ cell counts of 350-500 cells/µl, the incremental
cost per 1000 women was 157,345 United States dollars (US$) for breastfeeding
women and US$ 92,813 for non-breastfeeding women. For women with CD4+ cell counts
> 500 cells/µl, the incremental cost per 1000 women ranged from US$ 363,443 to
US$ 484,591 for breastfeeding women and was US$ 605,739 for non-breastfeeding
women.
CONCLUSION: From a cost perspective, a policy switch from Option B to Option B+
is feasible in PMTCT programme settings where resources are currently being
allocated to Option B.

Publisher: Estimer le surcoût sur 5 ans d'un changement de politique, avec le
passage du protocole de l'Option B à celui de l'Option B+ dans le cadre de la
prévention de la transmission de la mère à l'enfant (PTME) du virus de
l'immunodéficience humaine (VIH).Des données issues d'études de coûts et d'autres
sources publiées ont été utilisées pour déterminer le coût, par femme et par
cohorte (1000 femmes qui allaitent et 1000 femmes qui n'allaitent pas), du
passage de l'Option B (traitement par trithérapie antirétrovirale [ARV] de la
mère pendant la grossesse et l'allaitement, et administration quotidienne de
névirapine à l'enfant pendant 6 semaines) à l'Option B+ (traitement par
trithérapie ARV initié pendant la grossesse et ensuite pris à vie). Les variables
utilisées pour modéliser les différents scénarios ont été la numération des
lymphocytes T CD4+ (cellules CD4+) chez la mère (350–500 contre
> 500 cellules/µl), la vitesse de la baisse des cellules CD4+ (moyenne, rapide,
lente), la situation au regard de l'allaitement maternel (oui, non) et la durée
de l'allaitement (12, 18 ou 24 mois).Pour les femmes présentant une numération
des cellules CD4+ de 350–500 cellules/µl, le surcoût pour 1000 femmes était de
157 345 dollars pour les femmes qui allaitent et de 92 813 dollars pour les
femmes qui n'allaitent pas. Pour les femmes présentant une numération des
cellules CD4+ > 500 cellules/µl, le surcoût pour 1000 femmes était compris entre 
363 443 dollars et 484 591 dollars pour les femmes qui allaitent et de
605 739 dollars pour les femmes qui n'allaitent pas.En termes de coûts, un
changement de politique de l'Option B à l'Option B+ est possible dans le cadre du
programme PTME où les ressources sont actuellement affectées à
l'Option B.Publisher: Estimar el coste adicional en 5 años de un cambio en la
política del protocolo de la opción B a la opción B+ para la prevención de la
transmisión de madre a hijo (PTMI) del virus de inmunodeficiencia humana (VIH).Se
emplearon datos de estudios de costes y otras fuentes publicadas para determinar 
el coste, por mujer y por cohorte (1000 mujeres lactantes y 1000 mujeres no
lactantes), al cambiar de la opción B (régimen antirretroviral triple materno
[ARV] durante el embarazo y la lactancia materna junto con nevirapina diaria para
el lactante durante 6 semanas) a la opción B+ (régimen antirretroviral triple ARV
iniciado durante el embarazo y tomado de por vida). Las variables empleadas para 
modelar los diversos escenarios fueron el recuento de linfocitos (CD4 + células) 
CD4 + T maternos (350–500 frente a > 500 células/µl), la tasa de disminución de
CD4 + células (media, rápida, lenta), el estado de lactancia materna (sí, no) y
la duración de la lactancia materna (12, 18 o 24 meses).En las mujeres con un
recuento de CD4 + de 350–500 células/µl, el coste adicional por 1000 mujeres fue 
157 345 dólares de los Estados Unidos (US$) para las mujeres lactantes y
US$ 92 813 para las mujeres no lactantes. En las mujeres con un recuento de CD4 +
células de > 500 células/µl, el coste adicional por 1000 mujeres varió de
US$ 363 443 a US$ 484 591 en las mujeres lactantes y US$ 605 739 en las mujeres
no lactantes.Desde el punto de vista de los costes, un cambio en la política de
la B opción a la opción B+ es factible en la configuración del programa de PTMI, 
en el que en la actualidad los recursos se están destinando a la
opción B.Publisher: تقدير التكلفة الإضافية لتحول السياسة من بروتوكول الخيار ب إلى
الخيار ب+ على مدار 5 سنوات للوقاية من انتقال فيروس العوز المناعي البشري من الأم
إلى الطفل.تم استخدام البيانات المستمدة من دراسات التكلفة وغيرها من المصادر
المنشورة لتحديد تكلفة التحول من الخيار ب (نظام مضادات الفيروسات القهقرية الثلاثي 
للأم أثناء الحمل والرضاعة الطبيعية بالإضافة إلى نفيرابين الذي يعطى للرضع يومياً
لمدة 6 أسابيع) إلى الخيار ب+ (بدء نظام مضادات الفيروسات القهقرية الثلاثي للأم
أثناء الحمل واستمراره مدى الحياة)، لكل سيدة ولكل مجموعة (1000 سيدة تستخدمن
الرضاعة الطبيعية و1000 سيدة لا تستخدمن الرضاعة الطبيعية). وكانت المتغيرات
المستخدمة لنمذجة السيناريوهات المختلفة هي إحصاء الخلايا اللمفاوية التائية
المساعدة (CD4+) للأم (350-500 مقابل أكبر من 500 خلية/ميكرولتر) ومعدل الانخفاض في 
الخلايا اللمفاوية التائية المساعدة (متوسط وسريع وبطيء) وحالة الرضاعة الطبيعية
(نعم أو لا) ومدة الرضاعة الطبيعية (12 أو 18 أو 24 شهراً).بالنسبة للنساء اللاتي
تراوح إحصاء الخلايا اللمفاوية التائية المساعدة (CD4+) لديهن من 350 إلى 500
خلية/ميكرولتر، كانت التكلفة الإضافية لكل 1000 سيدة 157345 دولاراً أمريكياً للنساء
اللاتي يستخدمن الرضاعة الطبيعية و92813 دولاراً أمريكياً للنساء اللاتي لا يستخدمن 
الرضاعة الطبيعية. وبالنسبة للنساء اللاتي يزيد إحصاء الخلايا اللمفاوية التائية
المساعدة (CD4+) لديهن عن 500 خلية/ميكرولتر، تراوحت التكلفة الإضافية لكل 1000 سيدة
من 363443 دولاراً أمريكياً إلى 484591 دولاراً أمريكياً بالنسبة للنساء اللاتي
يستخدمن الرضاعة الطبيعية وكانت 605739 دولاراً أمريكياً بالنسبة للنساء اللاتي لا
يستخدمن الرضاعة الطبيعية.من منظور التكلفة، فإن تحول السياسة من الخيار ب إلى
الخيار ب+ مجد في بيئات برنامج الوقاية من انتقال فيروس العوز المناعي البشري من
الأم إلى الطفل حيث يتم تخصيص الموارد في الوقت الراهن للخيار ب.Publisher:
评估5年来预防艾滋病病毒（HIV）母婴传播（PMTCT）政策从选项B切换到选项B+所增加的成本。使用来自成本研究和其他发表来源的数据确定从选项B（在怀孕和母乳喂养
期间母亲三重抗逆转录病毒[ARV]疗法以及婴儿每天服用奈韦拉平6周）切换到选项B+（母亲怀孕期开始并终身接受三重ARV疗法）每名妇女和每个同生群（一千名母乳哺育和
一千名非母乳哺育女性）的成本。不同场景建模使用的变量为：母亲CD4+
T淋巴细胞（CD4+细胞）数（350-500对比> 500细胞/µl）、CD4+细胞衰退率（平均、快速和缓慢）、母乳哺育状态（是、否）和母乳哺育时长（12、18或
24个月）。对于CD4+细胞数为350-500细胞/µl的女性，每千名母乳喂养女性的成本增加157345美元（US$），每千名非母乳哺育女性的成本增加92813美
元。对于CD4+细胞数为>500细胞/µl的女性，每千名母乳哺育女性的成本增加范围为363443至484591美元（US$），每千名非母乳哺育女性的成本增加605
739美元。从成本角度看，在目前资源调配给选项B的PMTCT计划环境中，进行选项B至选项B+的政策切换是可行的。Publisher: Оценить
дополнительные издержки перехода от политики использования протокола Варианта B к
политике использования протокола Варианта B+ для предотвращения передачи ВИЧ
(вируса иммунодефицита человека) от матери к ребенку за период, равный пять
лет.Для оценки издержек перехода от Варианта B (режим тройной комбинации
антиретровирусных препаратов для женщин во время беременности и кормления грудью 
плюс ежедневный прием невирапина новорожденным в течение 6 недель) к Варианту B+ 
(режим тройной комбинации антиретровирусных препаратов для женщин, начинающийся
во время беременности и продолжающийся в течение всей жизни) на каждую женщину и 
на группу (1000 кормящих и 1000 не кормящих грудью женщин) использовались данные 
анализов издержек и других общедоступных источников. Для моделирования различных 
сценариев использовались следующие переменные: уровень лимфоцитов CD4+ T (клеток 
CD4+) у матерей (350–500 против > 500 клеток/мкл), скорость снижения уровня
клеток CD4+ (средняя, высокая, низкая), наличие или отсутствие грудного
вскармливания (да, нет) и продолжительность грудного вскармливания (12, 18 или
24 месяца).Среди женщин с уровнем клеток CD4+ 350–500 клеток/мкл дополнительные
издержки на 1000 женщин составили 157 345 долларов США для женщин, кормящих
грудью, и 92 813 долларов США для женщин, не кормящих грудью. Среди женщин с
уровнем клеток CD4+ > 500 клеток/мкл дополнительные издержки на 1000 женщин
варьировались от 363 443 до 484 591 долларов США для женщин, кормящих грудью, и
достигли 605 739 долларов США для женщин, не кормящих грудью.С точки зрения
издержек политика перехода от Варианта B к Варианту B+ в рамках программы
предотвращения передачи ВИЧ от матери к ребенку, ресурсы которой в настоящий
момент используются для обслуживания Варианта B, является оправданной.
DOI: 10.2471/BLT.13.122523 
PMCID: PMC3949590
PMID: 24700975  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Hum Pathol. 2014 May;45(5):1109-14. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2013.12.006. Epub 2014
Jan 8.

Clonal identity and histologic difference in peripheral T-cell lymphoma with
follicular helper T-cell phenotype simultaneously occurring at common bile duct
and lymph nodes.

Lee D(1), Park S(2), Kim YC(3), Ko YH(4), Han JH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology and Global Top 5 Research Program, Ewha Womans
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. Electronic address:
spark0430@ewha.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Radiology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Pathology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.
Electronic address: hanpathol@naver.com.

We present the first case of peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified 
expressing follicular helper T-cell markers with different histologic features
simultaneously involving the common bile duct and pericholedochal lymph nodes in 
a 72-year-old woman patient. Abdominal computed tomography revealed a localized
wall thickening in the common bile duct. With the impression of
cholangiocarcinoma, pancreaticoduodenectomy was done. Microscopically, dense
small lymphoid cells with only minimal cytologic atypia were observed with
occasional lymphoepithelial-like lesions, whereas many atypical large cells
infiltrated the pericholedochal lymph nodes. Immunohistochemically, most small
cells in the bile duct and the large atypical cells in the lymph nodes were all
reactive for follicular helper T-cell markers including CD4, PD-1, and CXCL-13.
BIOMED-2 based polymerase chain reaction using the DNA template from either the
bile duct lesion or the lymph node revealed identical but different dominant
clonal peaks, indicating these 2 lesions represent a spectrum of the same
disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2013.12.006 
PMID: 24656321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Biomed Rep. 2014 Mar;2(2):270-274. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Expression levels of CD28, CTLA-4, PD-1 and Tim-3 as novel indicators of T-cell
immune function in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus infection.

Wang L(1), Zhao C(1), Peng Q(1), Shi J(1), Gu G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology of
Jiangsu Province, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou,
Jiangsu 215006, P.R. China.

Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is one of the most common types of infectious diseases 
worldwide. The interaction between hepatitis B virus (HBV) and the host immune
response is vital for the clinical outcome of HBV infection. Costimulatory
signals are key factors for the host immune response and play a critical role in 
innate immunity, particularly antiviral immunity. The aim of the present study
was to investigate the correlation between the expression levels of costimulatory
molecules and the different states of CHB infection, including the expression
levels prior to and following treatment with antiviral agents. The expression
levels of CD28, CTLA-4, PD-1, Tim-3 and T-cell subsets were determined by flow
cytometry. The load of HBV DNA in the serum was detected by quantitative
polymerase chain reaction and the serology markers, including HBeAg and alanine
aminotransferase (ALT), were measured by conventional methods. Compared to the
healthy control group, the expression levels of CD28 and CTLA-4 on CD4 T cells
prior to and following treatment with antiviral agents (the pre- and
post-treatment groups, respectively) were significantly decreased, while the
expression levels of Tim-3 on CD4 and CD8 T cells were significantly increased.
In addition, the expression levels of PD-1 on CD4 and CD8 T cells in the
pre-treatment group were significantly increased compared to those in the
post-treatment and healthy control groups. Moreover, the multivariate analysis
revealed that the levels of ALT and HBV-DNA in the serum were significantly
positively correlated with PD-1 expression levels. In conclusion, the expression 
levels of these costimulatory molecules reflect the immune dysfunction of T cells
in patients with CHB and, combined with T-cell subset analysis may be used as a
novel evaluation system of immune function in patients with HBV infection.

DOI: 10.3892/br.2014.217 
PMCID: PMC3917748
PMID: 24649109 


5. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:520763. doi: 10.1155/2014/520763. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Toward understanding the role of aryl hydrocarbon receptor in the immune system: 
current progress and future trends.

Hanieh H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biological Sciences Department, King Faisal University, P.O. Box 380, Hofouf
31982, Saudi Arabia.

The immune system is regulated by distinct signaling pathways that control the
development and function of the immune cells. Accumulating evidence suggest that 
ligation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (Ahr), an environmentally responsive
transcription factor, results in multiple cross talks that are capable of
modulating these pathways and their downstream responsive genes. Most of the
immune cells respond to such modulation, and many inflammatory response-related
genes contain multiple xenobiotic-responsive elements (XREs) boxes upstream.
Active research efforts have investigated the physiological role of Ahr in
inflammation and autoimmunity using different animal models. Recently formed
paradigm has shown that activation of Ahr by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin 
(TCDD) or 3,3'-diindolylmethane (DIM) prompts the differentiation of
CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) and inhibits T helper (Th)-17
suggesting that Ahr is an innovative therapeutic strategy for autoimmune
inflammation. These promising findings generate a basis for future clinical
practices in humans. This review addresses the current knowledge on the role of
Ahr in different immune cell compartments, with a particular focus on
inflammation and autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/520763 
PMCID: PMC3914515
PMID: 24527450  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Immunobiology. 2014 May;219(5):329-40. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.11.002. Epub
2014 Jan 9.

Regulation of T lymphocyte apoptotic markers is associated to cell activation
during the acute phase of dengue.

Torrentes-Carvalho A(1), Marinho CF(2), de Oliveira-Pinto LM(2), de Oliveira
DB(2), Damasco PV(3), Cunha RV(4), de Souza LJ(5), de Azeredo EL(2), Kubelka
CF(6).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Imunologia Viral, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz/FIOCRUZ, RJ, Brazil.
Electronic address: torrentes@ioc.fiocruz.br.
(2)Laboratório de Imunologia Viral, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz/FIOCRUZ, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Hospital Universitário Pedro Ernesto, UERJ and Hospital Universitário
Gafreé-Guinle, UNIRIO, RJ, Brazil.
(4)Departamento de Clínica Médica, FM, Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso do
Sul, Campo Grande, MS, Brazil.
(5)Centro de Referência em Dengue e Faculdade de Medicina, Campos de Goytacazes, 
RJ, Brazil.
(6)Laboratório de Imunologia Viral, Instituto Oswaldo Cruz/FIOCRUZ, RJ, Brazil.
Electronic address: claire@ioc.fiocruz.br.

Dengue fever, a public health problem in Brazil, may present severe clinical
manifestations as result of an increased vascular permeability and coagulation
disorders. T cell activation is a critical event for an effective immune response
against infection, including the production of cytokines. We aim to reveal
mechanisms that modulate the virus-cell interaction, with an emphasis on cell
death. Apoptosis is involved in lymphocyte homeostasis, contributes to the
clearance of virus-infected cells but also may play a role in the pathogenesis.
Phosphatidylserine exposure on CD8T lymphocytes from dengue patients support
early apoptotic processes and loss of genomic integrity, observed by DNA
fragmentation in T lymphocytes and indicating late apoptosis. These T cells
express activation and cytotoxic phenotypes as revealed by CD29 and CD107a
upregulation. Higher frequencies of CD95 were detected in T lymphocytes mainly in
those with the cytotoxic profile (CD107a+) and lower levels of anti-apoptotic
molecule Bcl-2, suggesting that both CD4+ and CD8+ T cell subsets are more
susceptible to apoptosis during acute dengue. The analysis of apoptosis-related
protein expression profile showed that not only molecules with pro- but also
those with anti-apoptotic functions are overexpressed, indicating that survival
mechanisms could be possibly protecting cells against apoptosis caused by viral, 
immune, oxidative and/or genotoxic stresses. These observations led us to propose
that in dengue patients there is an association between T cell susceptibility to 
apoptosis and the activation state. The mechanisms for understanding the
immunopathogenesis during dengue infection are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.11.002 
PMID: 24508270  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Nucl Med Biol. 2014 Apr;41(4):350-4. doi: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2013.12.018. Epub
2014 Jan 10.

Visualizing inflammation activity in rheumatoid arthritis with Tc-99 m
anti-CD4-mAb fragment scintigraphy.

Steinhoff K(1), Pierer M(2), Siegert J(3), Pigla U(4), Laub R(4), Hesse S(5),
Seidel W(6), Sorger D(5), Seese A(5), Kuenstler JU(7), Pietzsch HJ(8), Lincke
T(5), Rullmann M(9), Emmrich F(10), Sabri O(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department or Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany.
Electronic address: KarenGeva.Steinhoff@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, Medical Department II, University of Leipzig,
Germany.
(3)Institute of Clinical Pharmacology, Medical Faculty, Technical University
Dresden, Germany.
(4)Biotectid GmbH, Leipzig, Germany.
(5)Department or Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital, Leipzig, Germany.
(6)St. Georg Hospital, Department of Rheumatology, Leipzig, Germany.
(7)Biotectid GmbH, Leipzig, Germany; Institute of Radiopharmacy,
Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Dresden, Germany.
(8)Institute of Radiopharmacy, Helmholtz-Zentrum Dresden-Rossendorf, Dresden,
Germany.
(9)LIFE - Leipzig Research Centre for Civilization Diseases, University of
Leipzig, Germany.
(10)Institute for Clinical Immunology and Transfusion Medicine, University of
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; Translational Centre for Regenerative Medicine,
Leipzig, Germany.

PURPOSE: T-cell-located CD4 antigen represents one of the therapeutic targets in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, up to now there is no established imaging
tool to visualize this target in vivo. The aim of our study was to assess the
safety and tolerability of a technetium-99m labelled murine anti-human CD4
IgG1-Fab fragment ([(99m)Tc]-anti-CD4-Fab, [(99m)Tc]-EP1645) in patients with
active synovitis due to RA, and to evaluate its potential as a marker of disease 
activity.
METHODS: In the present phase I proof of principle study five patients with RA
were examined. Planar scans of the whole body, hands, and feet were taken 30 min 
up to 24h after application of 550 ± 150 MBq [(99m)Tc]-anti-CD4-Fab, followed by 
visual analyses, comparison with clinical data in 68 joints per patient and
semiquantitative analysis of hand and wrist joints.
RESULTS: Neither infusion related adverse events nor adverse events during follow
up were observed. No increase in human anti-murine antibody titres was seen. All 
patients had positive scans in almost 70% of clinically affected joints. Positive
scans were also found in 8% of joints without evidence of swelling or tenderness.
CONCLUSION: Scintigraphy with [(99m)Tc]-anti-CD4-Fab is a promising technique for
evaluation of inflammatory activity in patients with RA, pre-therapeutical
evaluation of CD4 status and therapy control. Tracer uptake in clinically
inconspicuous joints strongly indicates diagnostic potential of
[(99m)Tc]-anti-CD4-Fab. Whether this technique is eligible as a prognostic factor
in RA needs to be analysed in further studies as well as the pathophysiological
background of clinically affected joints lacking tracer uptake.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nucmedbio.2013.12.018 
PMID: 24503329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2014 Apr 15;158(3-4):128-34. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2013.12.005. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Participation of T regulatory cells in equine recurrent airway obstruction.

Henríquez C(1), Perez B(2), Morales N(3), Sarmiento J(4), Carrasco C(5), Morán
G(2), Folch H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Austral de Chile ,
Valdivia, Chile; Graduate School Faculty of Veterinary Sciences, Universidad
Austral de Chile , Valdivia, Chile. Electronic address:
henriquezclaudio@gmail.com.
(2)Pharmacology and Morphophysiology Department, Faculty of Veterinary Sciences, 
Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.
(3)Immunology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Austral de Chile ,
Valdivia, Chile.
(4)Physiology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Austral de Chile,
Valdivia, Chile.
(5)Pathology Department, Regional Hospital of Valdivia, Universidad Austral de
Chile, Valdivia, Chile.

Recurrent airway obstruction (RAO) is an equine immune-mediated disease with a
high incidence worldwide. The aim of this work was to contribute to the
understanding of RAO pathogenesis by studying T cells bearing regulatory markers 
in peripheral blood (PB) and in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) recovered
from the same group of susceptible horses before and after exposure to moldy hay,
which has been shown to induce RAO signology in our horse herd. With this
purpose, mononuclear cells were obtained from the BALF and PB from horses before 
and after antigenic challenge and were stained with fluorochrome-conjugated
antibodies against CD4, CD25 and Foxp3 and subsequently analyzed by flow
cytometry. The results indicated that the percentage of CD4+, Foxp3+ cells
clearly increased in PB and BALF obtained from horses with RAO. In addition, the 
percentage of CD4+, CD25(high) cells was greatly augmented in BALF of RAO
positive horses compared with a baseline. No changes were observed in the PB
compartment. The percentage of CD4+, CD25(high), Foxp3+ cells in BALF increased
in horses with active disease compared to horses in remission; this cell
population also does not show changes in the PB compartment when RAO positive and
RAO negative horses were compared. On the other hand, when the percentage of CD4,
Foxp3 positive cells were compared with the percentage of CD4+, CD25(high) cells,
the numbers were very similar. This observation was true for PB and BALF cells
from non exposed horses as well as horses exposed to antigen. In all the
experimental situations studied, the population expressing all of the markers
CD4+, CD25(high), Foxp3+ represent only a minor percentage of CD4+, CD25(high) or
CD4+, Foxp3 subpopulations; therefore, an significant number of CD4+, CD25(high),
Foxp3- and CD4+, CD25(null), Foxp3+ cells must exist. Finally, we conclude that
horses with RAO show an airway accumulation of T cells bearing regulatory markers
that probably are modulating the course of this disease, and that these T cells
may be involved in the resolution of immune-mediated bronchial inflammation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2013.12.005 
PMID: 24503328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2014 Apr 15;158(3-4):143-55. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.01.001. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Characterization of CD4+ subpopulations and CD25+ cells in ileal lymphatic tissue
of weaned piglets infected with Salmonella Typhimurium with or without
Enterococus faecium feeding.

Kreuzer S(1), Rieger J(2), Strucken EM(1), Thaben N(1), Hünigen H(2), Nöckler
K(3), Janczyk P(3), Plendl J(2), Brockmann GA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Breeding Biology and Molecular Genetics,
Invalidenstr. 42, D-10115 Berlin, Germany.
(2)Freie Universität Berlin, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Institute of
Veterinary Anatomy, Koserstraße 20, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Federal Institute for Risk Assessment, Department of Biological Safety, Unit
Molecular Diagnostics and Genetics, Diedersdorfer Weg 1, 12277 Berlin, Germany.
(4)Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Breeding Biology and Molecular Genetics,
Invalidenstr. 42, D-10115 Berlin, Germany. Electronic address:
gudrun.brockmann@agrar.hu-berlin.de.

The aim of the present study was to test the effect of Enterococcus faecium NCIMB
10415 (E. faecium) on CD4+ T helper immune cell subpopulations and CD25+ cells in
ileal lymphatic tissue after challenge with Salmonella (S.) Typhimurium DT 104.
German Landrace piglets treated with E. faecium (n=16) as a feed additive and
untreated controls (n=16) were challenged with S. Typhimurium 10 days after
weaning. The expression of lineage specific T helper cell subtype master
transcription factors on mRNA level was measured in the whole tissue of the gut
associated lymphoid tissues (ileocecal mesenteric lymph node, ileum with Peyer's 
patches and papilla ilealis) and in magnetically sorted T helper cells from blood
and ileocecal mesenteric lymph nodes at two and 28 days post infection. CD25
protein expression of T helper cells was studied by flow cytometry in ileal
Peyer's patches, lymph nodes and blood. Distribution and morphology of CD25+
cells was demonstrated in situ by immunohistochemistry in paraffin embedded
specimens of the ileum and the ileocecal mesenteric lymph nodes. The data provide
evidence for a higher T helper 2 cell driven immune response in the control group
compared to the E. faecium treated group (P<0.05) in CD4+ magnetically sorted
lymphocytes from the ileocecal mesenteric lymph nodes at two and 28 days post
infection. We did not observe differences for CD25+ cells in immunohistochemistry
and flow cytometry between E. faecium fed pigs and the control group, but
provided a detailed description of the occurrence and morphology of these cells
in the gut associate lymphoid tissues of piglets. In conclusion we suggest that
(i) prolonged feeding with E. faecium can result in changes of the T helper cell 
response leading to a stronger infection with S. Typhimurium and (ii) that it is 
important to examine purified immune cells to be able to detect effects on T
helper cell subpopulations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.01.001 
PMID: 24485092  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Endocrinol Invest. 2014 Jan;37(1):43-50. doi: 10.1007/s40618-013-0013-1. Epub
2014 Jan 8.

Defective expression of regulatory B cells in iodine-induced autoimmune
thyroiditis in non-obese diabetic H-2(h4) mice.

Shi L(1), Bi M, Yang R, Zhou J, Zhao S, Fan C, Shan Z, Li Y, Teng W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical
University, Shenyang, 110001, People's Republic of China.

INTRODUCTION: The ability of B cells to negatively regulate cellular immune
responses and inflammation has been described. The regulatory B (Breg) cells with
the unique CD1d(hi)CD5(+)CD19(+) phenotype and the capacity to produce IL-10 are 
potent negative regulators of inflammation and autoimmunity in several in vivo
mouse models of autoimmune disease.
AIM: To investigate whether Breg cell deficiency participates in autoimmune
thyroiditis (AIT) in an animal model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Non-obese diabetic (NOD).H-2(h4) mice at 4 weeks of age
were randomly divided into control and iodine-treated groups; the iodine-treated 
group received sterile water containing 0.005 % NaI for 10 or 20 weeks. The
percentage of CD1d(hi)CD5(+)CD19(+) Bregs, CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) regulatory T
cells (Treg) and CD4(+)IL17(+) T helper 17 cells (Th17) in splenic mononuclear
cells was detected by multicolor flow cytometry. The expression of IL-10 mRNA and
TGF-β mRNA in splenocytes was measured by real-time RT-PCR.
RESULTS: NOD.H-2(h4) mice spontaneously develop anti-thyroglobulin autoantibodies
and intrathyroidal lymphocyte infiltration when supplied with iodine in drinking 
water. Mice with AIT had a decreased CD1d(hi)CD5(+)CD19(+) Breg subset and
reduced IL-10 mRNA expression in splenocytes compared with controls (p < 0.05)
and maintained relatively low levels during the development of thyroiditis. The
proportion of Breg cells was negatively correlated with the proportion of Th17
cells, but positively correlated with CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+) Treg cells in
splenocytes (All p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The defective expression of Breg cells combined with impaired Treg
cells and enhanced Th17 cells might play an important role in the development of 
iodine-induced AIT in NOD.H-2(h4) mice.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-013-0013-1 
PMID: 24464449  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Clin Virol. 2014 Mar;59(3):204-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jcv.2013.12.010. Epub 2014 Jan
7.

Transient increment of HTLV-2 proviral load in HIV-1-co-infected patients during 
treatment intensification with raltegravir.

Abad-Fernández M(1), Cabrera C(2), García E(2), Vallejo A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunovirology, Department of Infectious Diseases, Universitary 
Hospital Ramón y Cajal, 28034 Madrid, Spain.
(2)IrsiCaixa-HIVACAT, Institut de Recerca en Ciències de la Salut Germans Trias i
Pujol (IGTP), Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, 
Badalona, 08916 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Laboratory of Immunovirology, Department of Infectious Diseases, Universitary 
Hospital Ramón y Cajal, 28034 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
avallejot@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Numerous studies have analyzed the effects of raltegravir
intensification on HIV-1 viral replication in infected individuals receiving
suppressive combined antiretroviral treatment (cART). Nevertheless, there are
only two studies on the effect of raltegravir in HTLV-1 infection, and none in
HTLV-2.
OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of raltegravir on HTLV-2 infection in
HIV-1-co-infected individuals.
STUDY DESIGN: This retrospective longitudinal study included four
HTLV-2-HIV-1-co-infected individuals who received raltegravir-based cART during
48 weeks and 11 HTLV-2-HIV-1-co-infected individuals under cART without
raltegravir during 48 weeks. HTLV-2 proviral load, CD4 and CD8 count and
frequency were analyzed.
RESULTS: HTLV-2 proviral load significantly increased at week 24 compared to
baseline among all the patients who received raltegravir (p=0.003), while no
significant increases were found in the control group. No significant variation
in either CD8 or CD4 counts was found during the follow up in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Raltegravir induced a transient increment on total HTLV-2 DNA
proviral load in HTLV-2/HIV-1-coinfected individuals on suppressive cART after 24
weeks.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcv.2013.12.010 
PMID: 24457115  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Neuroimmunol. 2014 Mar 15;268(1-2):35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2013.12.015. 
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Downmodulation of peripheral MOG-specific immunity by pVAXhsp65 treatment during 
EAE does not reach the CNS.

Zorzella-Pezavento SF(1), Chiuso-Minicucci F(1), França TG(1), Ishikawa LL(1), da
Rosa LC(1), Colavite PM(1), Marques C(2), Ikoma MR(2), Silva CL(3), Sartori A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Biosciences Institute, Univ.
Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Citometria de Fluxo - Fundação Dr. Amaral Carvalho, Jaú, São
Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Immunology, University of São Paulo (USP),
Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Biosciences Institute, Univ.
Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address:
sartori@ibb.unesp.br.

Most of the therapeutic strategies to control multiple sclerosis are directed to 
immune modulation and inflammation control. As heat shock proteins are able to
induce immunoregulatory T cells, we investigated the therapeutic effect of a
genetic vaccine containing the mycobacterial hsp65 gene on experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Although pVAXhsp65 was immunogenic for mice
with EAE and downmodulated specific cytokine induction by MOG, therapy was not
able to decrease clinical severity nor to modify immunologic parameters in the
CNS. These results indicate that hsp65, administered as a DNA vaccine, was not
therapeutic for EAE.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2013.12.015 
PMID: 24439542  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Front Immunol. 2014 Jan 7;4:487. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00487. eCollection 2014 
Jan 7.

Parenteral Adjuvant Effects of an Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli Natural
Heat-Labile Toxin Variant.

Braga CJ(1), Rodrigues JF(2), Medina-Armenteros Y(2), Farinha-Arcieri LE(2),
Ventura AM(2), Boscardin SB(3), Sbrogio-Almeida ME(4), Ferreira LC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of
São Paulo , São Paulo , Brazil ; Department of Parasitology, Institute of
Biomedical Sciences, University of São Paulo , São Paulo , Brazil.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of
São Paulo , São Paulo , Brazil.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of
São Paulo , São Paulo , Brazil.
(4)Division of Technological Development, Butantan Institute , São Paulo ,
Brazil.

Native type I heat-labile toxins (LTs) produced by enterotoxigenic Escherichia
coli (ETEC) strains exert strong adjuvant effects on both antibody and T cell
responses to soluble and particulate antigens following co-administration via
mucosal routes. However, inherent enterotoxicity and neurotoxicity (following
intra-nasal delivery) had reduced the interest in the use of these toxins as
mucosal adjuvants. LTs can also behave as powerful and safe adjuvants following
delivery via parenteral routes, particularly for activation of cytotoxic
lymphocytes. In the present study, we evaluated the adjuvant effects of a new
natural LT polymorphic form (LT2), after delivery via intradermal (i.d.) and
subcutaneous (s.c.) routes, with regard to both antibody and T cell responses. A 
recombinant HIV-1 p24 protein was employed as a model antigen for determination
of antigen-specific immune responses while the reference LT (LT1), produced by
the ETEC H10407 strain, and a non-toxigenic LT form (LTK63) were employed as
previously characterized LT types. LT-treated mice submitted to a four dose-base 
immunization regimen elicited similar p24-specific serum IgG responses and CD4(+)
T cell activation. Nonetheless, mice immunized with LT1 or LT2 induced higher
numbers of antigen-specific CD8(+) T cells and in vivo cytotoxic responses
compared to mice immunized with the non-toxic LT derivative. These effects were
correlated with stronger activation of local dendritic cell populations. In
addition, mice immunized with LT1 and LT2, but not with LTK63, via s.c. or i.d.
routes developed local inflammatory reactions. Altogether, the present results
confirmed that the two most prevalent natural polymorphic LT variants (LT1 or
LT2) display similar and strong adjuvant effects for subunit vaccines
administered via i.d. or s.c. routes.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2013.00487 
PMCID: PMC3882871
PMID: 24432018 


14. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2014 Mar;112(3):211-216.e1. doi:
10.1016/j.anai.2013.12.006. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Leukotriene B4 receptor 1 is differentially expressed on peripheral T cells of
steroid-sensitive and -resistant asthmatics.

Chung EH(1), Jia Y(1), Ohnishi H(1), Takeda K(1), Leung DY(2), Sutherland ER(3), 
Dakhama A(1), Martin RJ(3), Gelfand EW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell Biology, Department of Pediatrics, National Jewish Health,
Denver, Colorado.
(2)Division of Allergy, Department of Pediatrics, National Jewish Health, Denver,
Colorado.
(3)Department of Medicine, National Jewish Health, Denver, Colorado.
(4)Division of Cell Biology, Department of Pediatrics, National Jewish Health,
Denver, Colorado. Electronic address: gelfande@njhealth.org.

BACKGROUND: Numbers of CD8(+) T cells expressing the leukotriene B4 (LTB4)
receptor, BLT1, have been correlated with asthma severity.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the activation and numbers of BLT1-expressing peripheral
blood CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells from patients with steroid-sensitive (SS) and
steroid-resistant (SR) asthma.
METHODS: CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells isolated from peripheral blood of healthy
human subjects and patients with SS and SR asthma were stimulated in culture with
anti-CD3/anti-CD28 followed by analysis of BLT1 surface expression and cytokine
production. Activation of CD8(+) T cells after ligation of BLT1 by LTB4 was
monitored by changes in intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations.
RESULTS: The number of BLT1-expressing cells was larger in patients with asthma
than in controls and larger on activated CD8(+) than on CD4(+) T cells. Addition 
of LTB4 to activated CD8(+) T cells resulted in increases in intracellular Ca(2+)
concentrations. Expansion of activated CD4(+) T cells, unlike CD8(+) T cells, was
significantly decreased in the presence of corticosteroid. In patients with SS
asthma, numbers of BLT1-expressing CD8(+) T cells were lower in the presence of
corticosteroid, unlike in those with SR asthma in whom cell expansion was
maintained. Levels of interleukin-13 were highest in cultured CD8(+) T cells,
whereas interleukin-10 levels were higher in CD4(+) T cells from controls and
patients with SS asthma. Interferon-γ levels were lowest in patients with SR
asthma.
CONCLUSION: Differences in BLT1 expression, steroid sensitivity, and cytokine
production were demonstrated in T lymphocytes from patients with SS and SR
asthma. The LTB4-BLT1 pathway in CD8(+) cells may play an important role in
asthma and serve as an important target in the treatment of patients with SR
asthma.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2013.12.006 
PMCID: PMC3951978
PMID: 24428972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 8;9(1):e83750. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083750. eCollection 
2014.

Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis and tuberculosis risk among people living with HIV.

Hoffmann CJ(1), Chaisson RE(1), Martinson NA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Center for TB Research,
Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America.
(2)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and Center for TB Research,
Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America ; Perinatal HIV Research Unit,
Johannesburg, South Africa.

OBJECTIVES: Many randomized and cohort studies have reported a survival benefit
with cotrimoxazole prophylaxis without detecting a difference in tuberculosis
(TB) incidence by cotrimoxazole status. However, several in vitro studies have
reported that cotrimoxazole possesses anti-TB activity. We sought to compare TB
incidence and TB diagnostic yield by cotrimoxazole use among participants in a
well characterized cohort of HIV-infected adults living in a high TB prevalence
region.
METHODS: We analyzed prospective data from a long-term longitudinal cohort of
adults receiving HIV care and TB investigations in Soweto, South Africa. Using
longitudinal analysis, we compared total and laboratory confirmed TB incidence by
cotrimoxazole status as well as all-cause mortality. In addition, we compared TB 
culture results by cotrimoxazole status.
RESULTS: In a multivariable analysis, adjusted for sex, body mass index, WHO
clinical stage, time-updated CD4 count, and antiretroviral therapy status, we
observed an association between cotrimoxazole and an increase in TB incidence
(hazard ratio 1.7, 95% CI: 1.2, 2.2). However, when restricted to
laboratory-confirmed TB, there was no association between cotrimoxazole and TB
incidence (hazard ratio: 0.97, 95% CI: 0.39, 2.4). In TB cases, we found no
difference in the proportion of positive sputum cultures or days to culture
positivity by cotrimoxazole status. Cotrimoxazole was associated with a reduction
in mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort with a mortality benefit from cotrimoxazole, we found
an increased risk of all TB among individuals using cotrimoxazole, likely a
result of residual confounding, but no association between use of cotrimoxazole
and laboratory-confirmed TB. Cotrimoxazole did not compromise TB diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083750 
PMCID: PMC3885446
PMID: 24421903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Eur Heart J. 2015 May 1;36(17):1041-8. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht543. Epub 2014
Jan 12.

Clonal restriction and predominance of regulatory T cells in coronary thrombi of 
patients with acute coronary syndromes.

Klingenberg R(1), Brokopp CE(2), Grivès A(3), Courtier A(3), Jaguszewski M(4),
Pasqual N(3), Vlaskou Badra E(4), Lewandowski A(4), Gaemperli O(4), Hoerstrup
SP(2), Maier W(4), Landmesser U(5), Lüscher TF(5), Matter CM(5).

Author information: 
(1)University Heart Center, Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Zurich,
Rämistrasse 100, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland Cardiovascular Research, Zurich
Center of Integrative Human Physiology (ZIHP), Institute of Physiology,
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland roland.klingenberg@usz.ch.
(2)Regenerative Medicine Center, Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University
Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)ImmunID Technologies, Grenoble, France.
(4)University Heart Center, Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Zurich,
Rämistrasse 100, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)University Heart Center, Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Zurich,
Rämistrasse 100, CH-8091 Zurich, Switzerland Cardiovascular Research, Zurich
Center of Integrative Human Physiology (ZIHP), Institute of Physiology,
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

AIMS: Regulatory T cells (Treg) exert anti-inflammatory and atheroprotective
effects in experimental atherosclerosis. Treg can be induced against specific
antigens using immunization strategies associated with clonal restriction. No
data exist on Treg in combination with clonal restriction of T cells in patients 
with acute coronary syndromes (ACS).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Among T cell subsets characterized by flow cytometry, Treg
(CD4(+) CD25(+) CD127(low)) were twice as frequent in coronary thrombi compared
with peripheral blood. Treg prevailed among T cell subsets identified in coronary
thrombi. To evaluate clonal restriction, genomic DNA was extracted from coronary 
thrombi and peripheral blood in order to evaluate T cell receptor (TCR) β chain
diversity by means of Multi-N-plex PCR using a primer speciﬁc for all TCR β V
gene segments and another primer speciﬁc for TCR β J gene segments. T cell
receptor diversity was reduced in thrombi compared with peripheral blood
(intra-individual comparisons in 16 patients) with 8 gene rearrangements in the
TCR common in at least 6 out of 16 analysed coronary thrombi. Compared with
age-matched healthy controls (n = 16), TCR diversity was also reduced in
peripheral blood of patients with ACS; these findings were independent of
peripheral T cell numbers.
CONCLUSION: We provide novel evidence for a perturbed T cell compartment
characterized by clonal restriction in peripheral blood and coronary thrombi from
patients with ACS. Our findings warrant further studies on Treg as novel
therapeutic targets aimed at enhancing this anti-inflammatory component of
adaptive immunity in human atherothrombosis.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the European
Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht543 
PMCID: PMC4416137
PMID: 24419807  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Mar 15;475:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.12.093.
Epub 2014 Jan 11.

Immunological alterations in individuals exposed to metal(loid)s in the
Panasqueira mining area, Central Portugal.

Coelho P(1), García-Lestón J(2), Costa S(3), Costa C(4), Silva S(5), Fuchs D(6), 
Geisler S(7), Dall'Armi V(8), Zoffoli R(9), Bonassi S(10), Pásaro E(11), Laffon
B(12), Teixeira JP(13).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Health, Environmental Health Department, Rua Alexandre
Herculano n321, 4000-055 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address:
pcscoelho@gmail.com.
(2)Toxicology Unit, Department of Psychobiology, University of A Coruña, Campus
Elviña s/n, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. Electronic address: jgarciale@gmail.com.
(3)National Institute of Health, Environmental Health Department, Rua Alexandre
Herculano n321, 4000-055 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address:
solange.costa2@gmail.com.
(4)National Institute of Health, Environmental Health Department, Rua Alexandre
Herculano n321, 4000-055 Porto, Portugal; Institute of Public Health, University 
of Porto, Rua das Taipas n135, 4050-600 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address:
cstcosta@gmail.com.
(5)National Institute of Health, Environmental Health Department, Rua Alexandre
Herculano n321, 4000-055 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address:
susana.pinho@insa.min-saude.pt.
(6)Division of Biological Chemistry, Biocenter, Innsbruck Medical University,
Center for Chemistry and Biomedicine, Innrain 80, 4th Floor, Room M04-313, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address: dietmar.fuchs@i-med.ac.at.
(7)Division of Biological Chemistry, Biocenter, Innsbruck Medical University,
Center for Chemistry and Biomedicine, Innrain 80, 4th Floor, Room M04-313, A-6020
Innsbruck, Austria. Electronic address: simon.geisler@i-med.ac.at.
(8)Unit of Clinical and Molecular Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a
Carattere Scientifico San Raffaele Pisana, Via di Val Cannuta, 247, 00166 Roma,
Italy. Electronic address: valentina.dallarmi@sanraffaele.it.
(9)Unit of Clinical and Molecular Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a
Carattere Scientifico San Raffaele Pisana, Via di Val Cannuta, 247, 00166 Roma,
Italy. Electronic address: roberto.zoffoli@sanraffaele.it.
(10)Unit of Clinical and Molecular Epidemiology, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a
Carattere Scientifico San Raffaele Pisana, Via di Val Cannuta, 247, 00166 Roma,
Italy. Electronic address: stefano.bonassi@sanraffaele.it.
(11)Toxicology Unit, Department of Psychobiology, University of A Coruña, Campus 
Elviña s/n, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. Electronic address: eduardo.pasaro@udc.es.
(12)Toxicology Unit, Department of Psychobiology, University of A Coruña, Campus 
Elviña s/n, 15071 A Coruña, Spain. Electronic address: blaffon@udc.es.
(13)National Institute of Health, Environmental Health Department, Rua Alexandre 
Herculano n321, 4000-055 Porto, Portugal; Institute of Public Health, University 
of Porto, Rua das Taipas n135, 4050-600 Porto, Portugal. Electronic address:
jpft12@gmail.com.

Environmental studies performed in Panasqueira mine area (central Portugal)
identified high concentrations of several metal(loid)s in environmental media,
and individuals environmentally and occupationally exposed showed higher levels
of As, Cr, Mg, Mn, Mo, Pb and Zn in blood, urine, hair and nails when compared to
unexposed controls. To evaluate the presence of immunological alterations
attributable to environmental contamination, we quantified neopterin, kynurenine,
tryptophan, and nitrite concentrations in plasma, and analysed the percentage of 
several lymphocytes subsets, namely CD3(+), CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cells, CD19(+)
B-cells, and CD16(+)56(+) natural killer (NK) cells in a group of individuals
previously tested for metal(loid) levels in different biological matrices. The
environmentally exposed group had significantly lower levels of %CD8(+) and
higher CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratios, whereas the occupationally exposed individuals
showed significant decreases in %CD3(+) and %CD4(+), and significant increases in
%CD16(+)56(+), when compared to controls. Analysed biomarkers were found to be
influenced by age, particularly neopterin, kynurenine and kynurenine to
tryptophan ratio (Kyn/Trp) with significantly higher levels in older individuals,
and %CD3(+), %CD8(+) and %CD19(+) with significantly lower values in older
individuals. Males environmentally exposed showed significantly lower values of
%CD19(+) when compared to control females. The concentration of Pb in toenails
was associated to the level of neopterin, kynurenine and Kyn/Trp ratio (all
direct), and the concentration of Mn in blood to the level of %CD8(+), %CD19(+)
(both inverse) and CD4(+)/CD8(+) ratio (direct). Overall our results show that
the metal(loid) contamination in Panasqueira mine area induced immunotoxic
effects in exposed populations, possibly increasing susceptibility to diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.12.093 
PMID: 24419281  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Virol Methods. 2014 Apr;199:17-24. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.01.003. Epub
2014 Jan 10.

Enhanced and efficient detection of virus-driven cytokine expression by human NK 
and T cells.

Pattacini L(1), Murnane PM(2), Fluharty TR(1), Katabira E(3), De Rosa SC(1),
Baeten JM(4), Lund JM(5).

Author information: 
(1)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA.
(2)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA;
Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(3)Infectious Disease Institute, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA;
Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA;
Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(5)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA; Department of Global Health, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. Electronic address: jlund@fhcrc.org.

Cutting edge immune monitoring techniques increasingly measure multiple
functional outputs for various cell types, such as intracellular cytokine
staining (ICS) assays that measure cytokines expressed by T cells. To date,
however, there is no precise method to measure virus-specific cytokine production
by both T cells as well as NK cells in the same well, which is important to a
greater extent given recent identification of NK cells expressing a memory
phenotype. This study describes an adaptable and efficient ICS assay platform
that can be used to detect antigen-driven cytokine production by human T cells
and NK cells, termed "viral ICS". Importantly, this assay uses limited amount of 
cryopreserved PBMCs along with autologous heat-inactivated serum, thereby
allowing for this assay to be performed when sample is scarce as well as
geographically distant from the laboratory. Compared to a standard ICS assay that
detects antigen-specific T cell cytokine expression alone, the viral ICS assay is
comparable in terms of both HIV-specific CD4 and CD8T cell cytokine response
rates and magnitude of response, with the added advantage of ability to detect
virus-specific NK cell responses.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2014.01.003 
PMCID: PMC3951839
PMID: 24418500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Int J Biol Macromol. 2014 Apr;65:121-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2014.01.017. Epub
2014 Jan 10.

Novel polysaccharide from Radix Cyathulae officinalis Kuan can improve immune
response to ovalbumin in mice.

Feng H(1), Du X(2), Liu J(3), Han X(2), Cao X(2), Zeng X(4).

Author information: 
(1)Isotope Research Laboratory, College of Life Science, Sichuan Agricultural
University, Ya'an, Sichuan 625014, PR China; Department of Veterinary Medicine,
Southwest University, Rongchang, Chongqing 402460, PR China.
(2)Isotope Research Laboratory, College of Life Science, Sichuan Agricultural
University, Ya'an, Sichuan 625014, PR China.
(3)Department of Veterinary Medicine, Southwest University, Rongchang, Chongqing 
402460, PR China.
(4)Isotope Research Laboratory, College of Life Science, Sichuan Agricultural
University, Ya'an, Sichuan 625014, PR China. Electronic address:
xyzeng1966@163.com.

This study was designed to investigate the effects of oral administration of the 
polysaccharide from the Radix Cyathulae officinalis Kuan (RCPS) for its adjuvant 
potential on the specific cellular and humoral immune responses in mice. In this 
study, our data demonstrated that oral administration of RCPS significantly
enhanced the phagocytic capacity of peritoneal macrophage, splenocyte
proliferation, the activity of natural killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T
lymphocytes (CTL) and OVA-speciﬁc IgG, IgG1, IgG2a, and IgG2b antibody titers.
Furthermore, RCPS promoted the level of interleukin-2(IL-2), IFN-γ and IL-4 in
CD4(+)T cells and level of IFN-γ in CD8(+)T cells. In addition, RCPS enhanced the
expression of CD40(+), CD80(+) and CD86(+) on the dendritic cells (DCs).
Importantly, RCPS down-regulated the frequency of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+)Treg
cells. Taken together, these results suggested that RCPS could increase both
cellular and humoral immune responses via up-regulating DCs maturation, and
suppressing Treg frequency.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijbiomac.2014.01.017 
PMID: 24418339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Cytokine. 2014 Apr;66(2):119-26. doi: 10.1016/j.cyto.2013.12.003. Epub 2014 Jan
10.

Peripheral depletion of NK cells and imbalance of the Treg/Th17 axis in
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis patients.

Galati D(1), De Martino M(2), Trotta A(3), Rea G(4), Bruzzese D(5), Cicchitto
G(6), Stanziola AA(2), Napolitano M(3), Sanduzzi A(2), Bocchino M(7).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Ematologia, IRCCS INT Fondazione Pascale, Napoli, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Chirurgia, Università Federico II, Napoli, 
Italy.
(3)UOSC Immunologia Oncologica, IRCCS INT Fondazione Pascale, Napoli, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento dei Servizi Diagnostici e Generali, Ospedali dei Colli,
Monaldi-Cotugno-CTO, Napoli, Italy.
(5)Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica, Università Federico II, Napoli, Italy.
(6)Fisiopatologia Respiratoria, ASL, Salerno, Italy.
(7)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Chirurgia, Università Federico II, Napoli, 
Italy. Electronic address: marialuisa.bocchino@unina.it.

The immune response plays an unsettled role in the pathogenesis of idiopathic
pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), the contribution of inflammation being controversial as
well. Emerging novel T cell sub-populations including regulatory T lymphocytes
(Treg) and interleukin (IL)-17 secreting T helper cells (Th17) may exert
antithetical actions in this scenario. Phenotype and frequency of circulating
immune cell subsets were assessed by multi-parametric flow cytometry in 29
clinically stable IPF patients and 17 healthy controls. The interplay between
Treg lymphocytes expressing transforming growth factor (TGF)-β and Th17 cells was
also investigated. Proportion and absolute number of natural killer (NK) cells
were significantly reduced in IPF patients in comparison with controls (p<0.001).
Conversely, the proportion and absolute number of CD3(+)CD4(+)CD25(high)Foxp-3(+)
cells were significantly increased in IPF patients (p=0.000). As in controls,
almost the totality of cells (>90%) expressed TGF-β upon stimulation.
Interestingly, the frequency of Th17 cells was significantly compromised in IPF
patients (p=0.000) leading to an increased TGF-β/IL-17 ratio (4.2±2.3 vs 0.5±0.3 
in controls, p=0.000). Depletion of NK and Th17 cells along with a not
compromised Treg compartment delineate the existence of an "immune profile" that 
argue against the recent hypothesis of IPF as an autoimmune disease. Our findings
along with the imbalance of the Treg/Th17 axis more closely suggest these immune 
perturbations to be similar to those observed in cancer. Clinical relevance,
limitations and perspectives for future research are discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cyto.2013.12.003 
PMID: 24418172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. HIV Med. 2014 Jul;15(6):330-8. doi: 10.1111/hiv.12121. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

Early lipid changes with atazanavir/ritonavir or darunavir/ritonavir.

Martinez E(1), Gonzalez-Cordon A, Ferrer E, Domingo P, Negredo E, Gutierrez F,
Portilla J, Curran A, Podzamczer D, Murillas J, Bernardino JI, Santos I, Carton
JA, Peraire J, Pich J, Perez I, Gatell JM; ATADAR Study Group.

Collaborators: Gatell JM, Martínez E, Arnaiz JA, Beleta H, Garcia D, Pich J,
Pejenaute A, Ramos N, Pérez I, Arcaina P, Giner L, Moya S, Pampliega M, Portilla 
J, Barrera G, Podzamczer D, Rozas N, Saumoy M, Ferrer E, Asensi V, Cartón JA,
Gatell JM, González-Cordón A, Pérez I, Martínez E, Masiá M, Padilla S, Ramos JR, 
Robledano C, Gutiérrez F, Puig J, Negredo E, Arribas JR, Castro JM, Bernardino
JI, Sanz J, Santos I, Cairó M, Velli P, Dalmau D, Lamas A, Martí-Belda P, Dronda 
F, Blanco JR, Gutierrez M, Mateo M, Domingo P, Losada E, Prieto A, Antela A,
Murillas J, Aguilar A, Peraire J, Vargas M, Viladés C, Vidal F, Crespo M, Curran 
A, Ribera E, Arnaiz J, Beleta H, Garcia D, Pejenaute A, Ramos N, Pich J.

Author information: 
(1)Hospital Clínic-IDIBAPS, Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Ritonavir-boosted atazanavir and darunavir are protease inhibitors
that are recommended for initial treatment of HIV infection because each has
shown better lipid effects and overall tolerability than ritonavir-boosted
lopinavir. The extent to which lipid effects and overall tolerability differ
between treatments with atazanavir and darunavir and whether atazanavir-induced
hyperbilirubinaemia may result in more favourable metabolic effects are issues
that remain to be resolved.
METHODS: A 96-week randomized clinical trial was carried out. The primary
endpoint was change in total cholesterol at 24 weeks. Secondary endpoints were
changes in lipids other than total cholesterol, insulin sensitivity, total
bilirubin, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and CD4 and CD8 cell counts, and
the proportion of patients with plasma HIV RNA < 50 HIV-1 RNA copies/mL and study
drug discontinuation because of adverse effects at 24 weeks. Analyses were
intent-to-treat.
RESULTS: One hundred and seventy-eight patients received once-daily treatment
with either atazanavir/ritonavir (n = 90) or darunavir/ritonavir (n = 88) plus
tenofovir/emtricitabine. At 24 weeks, mean total cholesterol had increased by
7.26 and 11.47 mg/dL in the atazanavir/ritonavir and darunavir/ritonavir arms,
respectively [estimated difference -4.21 mg/dL; 95% confidence interval (CI)
-12.11 to +3.69 mg/dL; P = 0.75]. However, the ratio of total to high-density
lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol tended to show a greater decrease with
atazanavir/ritonavir compared with darunavir/ritonavir (estimated difference
-1.02; 95% CI -2.35 to +0.13; P = 0.07). Total bilirubin significantly increased 
with atazanavir/ritonavir (estimated difference +1.87 mg/dL; 95% CI +1.58 to
+2.16 mg/dL; P < 0.01), but bilirubin changes were not associated with lipid
changes. Secondary endpoints other than total bilirubin were not significantly
different between arms.
CONCLUSIONS: Atazanavir/ritonavir and darunavir/ritonavir plus
tenofovir/emtricitabine did not show significant differences in total cholesterol
change or overall tolerability at 24 weeks. However, there was a trend towards a 
lower total to HDL cholesterol ratio with atazanavir/ritonavir and this effect
was unrelated to bilirubin.

© 2014 British HIV Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hiv.12121 
PMID: 24417772  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e85882. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085882. eCollection 
2014.

Interleukin-21 is a critical regulator of CD4 and CD8 T cell survival during
priming under Interleukin-2 deprivation conditions.

Khattar M(1), Miyahara Y(1), Schroder PM(1), Xie A(2), Chen W(2), Stepkowski
SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Toledo
College of Medicine, Toledo, Ohio, United States of America.
(2)Transplant Immunology Center, Houston Methodist Research Institute, Houston,
Texas, United States of America.

Optimal T cell activation and expansion require binding of the common gamma-chain
(γc) cytokine Interleukin-2 (IL-2) to its cognate receptor that in turn engages a
γc/Janus tyrosine kinase (Jak)3 signaling pathway. Because of its restricted
expression by antigen-activated T cells and its obligatory role in promoting
their survival and proliferation, IL-2 has been considered as a selective
therapeutic target for preventing T cell mediated diseases. However, in order to 
further explore IL-2 targeted therapy, it is critical to precisely understand its
role during early events of T cell activation. In this study, we delineate the
role of IL-2 and other γc cytokines in promoting the survival of CD4 and CD8 T
cells during early phases of priming. Under IL-2 inhibitory conditions (by
neutralizing anti-IL-2 mAbs), the survival of activated CD8⁺ T cells was reduced,
whereas CD4⁺ T cells remained much more resistant. These results correlated with 
reduced Bcl-2 expression, and mitochondrial membrane potential in CD8⁺ T cells in
comparison to CD4⁺ T cells. However, using transwell co-culture assays we have
found that CD4⁺ T cells could rescue the survival of CD8⁺ T cells even under IL-2
deprived conditions via secretion of soluble factors. A cytokine screen performed
on CD8⁺ T cells cultured alone revealed that IL-21, another γc cytokine, was
capable of rescuing their survival under IL-2 deprivation. Indeed, blocking the
IL-21 signaling pathway along with IL-2 neutralization resulted in significantly 
reduced survival of both CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T cells. Taken together, we have shown
that under IL-2 deprivation conditions, IL-21 may act as the major survival
factor promoting T cell immune responses. Thus, investigation of IL-2 targeted
therapies may need to be revisited to consider blockade of the IL-21 signaling
pathways as an adjunct to provide more effective control of T cell immune
responses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085882 
PMCID: PMC3887105
PMID: 24416451  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e85604. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085604. eCollection 
2014.

A parameter for IL-10 and TGF-ß mediated regulation of HIV-1 specific T cell
activation provides novel information and relates to progression markers.

Lind A(1), Brekke K(2), Pettersen FO(2), Mollnes TE(3), Trøseid M(2), Kvale D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ;
Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; Department 
of Immunology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ; Research Laboratory,
Nordland Hospital, Bodø, and University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway ; K. G. Jebsen 
Inflammation Research Centre, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ;
Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ; K. G. Jebsen
Inflammation Research Centre, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

HIV replication is only partially controlled by HIV-specific activated effector T
cells in chronic HIV infection and strategies are warranted to improve their
efficacy. Chronic T cell activation is generally accompanied by regulation of
antigen-specific T cell responses which may impair an effective control of
chronic infections. The impact of HIV-induced T cell regulation on individual
patients' disease progression is largely unknown, since classical T cell
activation assays reflect net activation with regulation as unknown contributing 
factor. We here explore a quantitative parameter for antigen-induced
cytokine-mediated regulation (R(AC) of HIV-specific effector T cell activation by
functional antibody-blockade of IL-10 and transforming growth factor-β. HIV Env- 
and Gag-specific T cell activation and R(AC) were estimated in peripheral blood
mononuclear cells from 30 treatment-naïve asymptomatic HIV-infected progressors
(CD4 count 472/µl, HIV RNA 37500 copies/ml) stimulated with overlapping peptide
panels for 6 days. R(AC) was estimated from differences in T cell activation
between normal and blocked cultures, and related to annual CD4 loss, immune
activation (CD38) and microbial translocation (plasma lipopolysaccharides). R(AC)
was heterogeneously distributed between individual patients and the two HIV
antigens. Notably, RAC did not correlate to corresponding classical activation.
Env R(AC) correlated with CD38 and CD4 loss rates (r> = 0.37, p = <0.046) whereas
classical Gag activation tended to correlate with HIV RNA (r = -0.35, p = 0.06). 
14 patients (47%) with low R(AC)'s to both Env and Gag had higher CD8 counts
(p = 0.014) and trends towards lower annual CD4 loss (p = 0.056) and later start 
with antiretroviral treatment (p = 0.07) than the others. In contrast, patients
with high RAC to both Env and Gag (n = 8) had higher annual CD4 loss (p = 0.034) 
and lower CD8 counts (p = 0.014). R(AC) to Env and Gag was not predicted by
classical activation parameters and may thus provide additional information on
HIV-specific immunity. R(AC) and other assessments of regulation deserve further 
in-depth exploration.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085604 
PMCID: PMC3887102
PMID: 24416431  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e85463. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085463. eCollection 
2014.

Fate of lymphocytes after withdrawal of tofacitinib treatment.

Piscianz E(1), Valencic E(1), Cuzzoni E(2), De Iudicibus S(3), De Lorenzo E(4),
Decorti G(5), Tommasini A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Medicine, Institute for Maternal and Child Health -
IRCCS "Burlo Garofolo", Trieste, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical, Surgical and Health Sciences, University of Trieste,
Trieste, Italy.
(3)Department of Paediatrics, Institute for Maternal and Child Health - IRCCS
"Burlo Garofolo", Trieste, Italy.
(4)Department of Translational Research, National Cancer Institute CRO-IRCCS,
Aviano, Italy.
(5)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Trieste, Italy.

Tofacitinib (Tofa) is an inhibitor of Janus Kinase 3, developed for the treatment
of autoimmune diseases and for the prevention of transplant rejection. Due to its
selective action on proliferating cells, Tofa can offer a way to block T cell
activation, without toxic effects on resting cells. However, few studies have
investigated the effects of Tofa on lymphocyte activation in vitro. Our aim was
to study the action of Tofa on different lymphocyte subsets after in vitro
stimulation and to track the behaviour of treated cells after interruption of the
treatment. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were stimulated in vitro with mitogen and
treated with two concentrations of Tofa. After a first period in culture, cells
were washed and further incubated for an additional time. Lymphocyte subsets,
activation phenotype and proliferation were assessed at the different time
frames. As expected, Tofa was able to reduce the activation and proliferation of 
lymphocytes in the first four days of treatment. In addition the drug led to a
relative decrease of Natural Killer, B cells and CD8 T cells compared to CD4 T
cells. However, treated cells were still viable after the first period in culture
and begun to proliferate, strikingly, in a dose dependent manner when the drug
was removed from the environment by replacing the culture medium. This novel data
does not necessarily predict a similar behaviour in vivo, but can warn about the 
clinical use of this drug when a discontinuation of treatment with Tofa is
considered for any reason.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085463 
PMCID: PMC3887061
PMID: 24416411  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e85398. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085398. eCollection 
2014.

Effective chemoimmunotherapy with anti-TGFβ antibody and cyclophosphamide in a
mouse model of breast cancer.

Chen X(1), Yang Y(2), Zhou Q(3), Weiss JM(4), Howard OZ(3), McPherson JM(5),
Wakefield LM(2), Oppenheim JJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Basic Science Program, Leidos Biomedical Research, Inc., Frederick National
Laboratory, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America ; Laboratory of
Molecular Immunoregulation, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer
Institute, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.
(2)Laboratory of Cancer Biology and Genetics, Center for Cancer Research,
National Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.
(3)Laboratory of Molecular Immunoregulation, Center for Cancer Research, National
Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.
(4)Laboratory of Experimental Immunology, Center for Cancer Research, National
Cancer Institute, Frederick, Maryland, United States of America.
(5)Genzyme Corporation, Framingham, Massachusetts, United States of America.

TGFβ is reportedly responsible for accumulation of CD4(+)Foxp3(+) regulatory T
cells (Tregs) in tumor. Thus, we treated mouse 4T1 mammary carcinoma with 1D11, a
neutralizing anti-TGFβ (1,2,3) antibody. The treatment delayed tumor growth, but 
unexpectedly increased the proportion of Tregs in tumor. In vitro, 1D11 enhanced 
while TGFβ potently inhibited the proliferation of Tregs. To enhance the
anti-tumor effects, 1D11 was administered with cyclophosphamide which was
reported to eliminate intratumoral Tregs. This combination resulted in long term 
tumor-free survival of up to 80% of mice, and the tumor-free mice were more
resistant to re-challenge with tumor. To examine the phenotype of tumor
infiltrating immune cells, 4T1-tumor bearing mice were treated with 1D11 and a
lower dose of cyclophosphamide. This treatment markedly inhibited tumor growth,
and was accompanied by massive infiltration of IFNγ-producing T cells.
Furthermore, this combination markedly decreased the number of splenic
CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells, and increased their expression levels of MHC II and CD80.
In a spontaneous 4T1 lung metastasis model with resection of primary tumor, this 
combination therapy markedly increased the survival of mice, indicating it was
effective in reducing lethal metastasis burden. Taken together, our data show
that anti-TGFβ antibody and cyclophosphamide represents an effective
chemoimmunotherapeutic combination.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085398 
PMCID: PMC3887137
PMID: 24416401  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e85274. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085274. eCollection 
2014.

Transgenic expression of microRNA-181d augments the stress-sensitivity of
CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes.

Belkaya S(1), van Oers NS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas, United States of America.
(2)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas, United States of America ; Department of Pediatrics, The
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, United States of 
America ; Department of Microbiology, The University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Center, Dallas, Texas, United States of America.

Physiological stress resulting from infections, trauma, surgery, alcoholism,
malnutrition, and/or pregnancy results in a substantial depletion of immature
CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes. We previously identified 18 distinct stress-responsive
microRNAs (miRs) in the thymus upon systemic stress induced by lipopolysaccharide
(LPS) or the synthetic glucocorticoid, dexamethasone (Dex). MiRs are short,
non-coding RNAs that play critical roles in the immune system by targeting
diverse mRNAs, suggesting that their modulation in the thymus in response to
stress could impact thymopoiesis. MiR-181d is one such stress-responsive miR,
exhibiting a 15-fold down-regulation in expression. We utilized both transgenic
and gene-targeting approaches to study the impact of miR-181d on thymopoiesis
under normal and stress conditions. The over-expression of miR-181d in developing
thymocytes reduced the total number of immature CD4(+)CD8(+) thymocytes. LPS or
Dex injections caused a 4-fold greater loss of these cells when compared with the
wild type controls. A knockout mouse was developed to selectively eliminate
miR-181d, leaving the closely spaced and contiguous family member miR-181c
intact. The targeted elimination of just miR-181d resulted in a thymus
stress-responsiveness similar to wild-type mice. These experiments suggest that
one or more of three other miR-181 family members have overlapping or
compensatory functions. Gene expression comparisons of thymocytes from the wild
type versus transgenic mice indicated that miR-181d targets a number of stress,
metabolic, and signaling pathways. These findings demonstrate that selected miRs 
enhance stress-mediated thymic involution in vivo.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085274 
PMCID: PMC3887031
PMID: 24416377  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 9;9(1):e84410. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084410. eCollection 
2014.

Effects of dietary glutamine on the homeostasis of CD4+ T cells in mice with
dextran sulfate sodium-induced acute colitis.

Hsiung YC(1), Liu JJ(2), Hou YC(3), Yeh CL(4), Yeh SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Nutrition and Health Sciences, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan.
(2)School of Medical Laboratory Science and Biotechnology, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Food and Nutrition, Chinese Culture University, Taipei, Taiwan.

This study investigated the effects of dietary glutamine (Gln) on T-helper (Th)
and T regulatory (Treg) cell homeostasis and colonic inflammatory mediator
expression in mice with dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis. Mice were
randomly assigned to 4 groups with 2 normal control (C and G) and 2 DSS-treated
groups (DC and DG). The C and DC groups were fed a common semipurified diet,
while the G and DG groups received an identical diet except that part of the
casein was replaced by Gln, which provided 25% of the total amino acid nitrogen. 
Mice were fed the diets for 10 days. On day 6, mice in the normal control groups 
were given distilled water, while those in the DSS groups were given distilled
water containing 1.5% DSS for 5 d. At the end of the experiment, the mice were
sacrificed for further examination. Results showed that DC group had higher
plasma haptoglobin, colonic weight, immunoglobulin G, inflammatory cytokine and
nuclear factor (NF)-κB protein levels. Gln administration lowered inflammatory
mediators and NF-κB/IκBα ratio in colitis. Compared with the DC group, the
percentages of interleukin-17F and interferon-γ in blood and transcription
factors, T-bet and RAR-related orphan receptor-γt, gene expressions in mesenteric
lymph nodes were lower, whereas blood Foxp3 was higher in the DG group. Also, DG 
group had lower colon injury score. These results suggest that Gln administration
suppressed Th1/Th17 and Th-associated cytokine expressions and upregulated the
expression of Tregs, which may modulate the balance of Th/Treg and reduce
inflammatory reactions in DSS-induced colitis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084410 
PMCID: PMC3887000
PMID: 24416230  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. PLoS Pathog. 2014 Jan;10(1):e1003864. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003864. Epub
2014 Jan 9.

IFNγ/IL-10 co-producing cells dominate the CD4 response to malaria in highly
exposed children.

Jagannathan P(1), Eccles-James I(1), Bowen K(1), Nankya F(2), Auma A(2), Wamala
S(2), Ebusu C(2), Muhindo MK(2), Arinaitwe E(2), Briggs J(1), Greenhouse B(1),
Tappero JW(3), Kamya MR(4), Dorsey G(1), Feeney ME(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America.
(2)Infectious Diseases Research Collaboration, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Center for Global Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta,
Georgia, United States of America.
(4)Department of Medicine, Makerere University College of Health Sciences,
Kampala, Uganda.
(5)Department of Medicine, San Francisco General Hospital, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America ; 
Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco,
California, United States of America.

Although evidence suggests that T cells are critical for immunity to malaria,
reliable T cell correlates of exposure to and protection from malaria among
children living in endemic areas are lacking. We used multiparameter flow
cytometry to perform a detailed functional characterization of malaria-specific T
cells in 78 four-year-old children enrolled in a longitudinal cohort study in
Tororo, Uganda, a highly malaria-endemic region. More than 1800 episodes of
malaria were observed in this cohort, with no cases of severe malaria. We
quantified production of IFNγ, TNFα, and IL-10 (alone or in combination) by
malaria-specific T cells, and analyzed the relationship of this response to past 
and future malaria incidence. CD4(+) T cell responses were measurable in nearly
all children, with the majority of children having CD4(+) T cells producing both 
IFNγ and IL-10 in response to malaria-infected red blood cells. Frequencies of
IFNγ/IL10 co-producing CD4(+) T cells, which express the Th1 transcription factor
T-bet, were significantly higher in children with ≥2 prior episodes/year compared
to children with <2 episodes/year (P<0.001) and inversely correlated with
duration since malaria (Rho = -0.39, P<0.001). Notably, frequencies of IFNγ/IL10 
co-producing cells were not associated with protection from future malaria after 
controlling for prior malaria incidence. In contrast, children with <2 prior
episodes/year were significantly more likely to exhibit antigen-specific
production of TNFα without IL-10 (P = 0.003). While TNFα-producing CD4(+) T cells
were not independently associated with future protection, the absence of cells
producing this inflammatory cytokine was associated with the phenotype of
asymptomatic infection. Together these data indicate that the functional
phenotype of the malaria-specific T cell response is heavily influenced by
malaria exposure intensity, with IFNγ/IL10 co-producing CD4(+) T cells dominating
this response among highly exposed children. These CD4(+) T cells may play
important modulatory roles in the development of antimalarial immunity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003864 
PMCID: PMC3887092
PMID: 24415936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. PLoS Comput Biol. 2014 Jan;10(1):e1003414. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003414.
Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Competition for antigen between Th1 and Th2 responses determines the timing of
the immune response switch during Mycobaterium avium subspecies paratuberulosis
infection in ruminants.

Magombedze G(1), Eda S(2), Ganusov VV(3).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennesse, United States of America.
(2)Department of Forestry, Wildlife, and Fisheries, University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, Tennesse, United States of America.
(3)National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis, University of
Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennesse, United States of America ; Department of
Microbiology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennesse, United States of
America ; Department of Mathematics, University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
Tennesse, United States of America.

Johne's disease (JD), a persistent and slow progressing infection of ruminants
such as cows and sheep, is caused by slow replicating bacilli Mycobacterium avium
subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) infecting macrophages in the gut. Infected
animals initially mount a cell-mediated CD4 T cell response against MAP which is 
characterized by the production of interferon gamma (Th1 response). Over time,
Th1 response diminishes in most animals and antibody response to MAP antigens
becomes dominant (Th2 response). The switch from Th1 to Th2 response occurs
concomitantly with disease progression and shedding of the bacteria in feces.
Mechanisms controlling this Th1/Th2 switch remain poorly understood. Because Th1 
and Th2 responses are known to cross-inhibit each other, it is unclear why
initially strong Th1 response is lost over time. Using a novel mathematical model
of the immune response to MAP infection we show that the ability of extracellular
bacteria to persist outside of macrophages naturally leads to switch of the
cellular response to antibody production. Several additional mechanisms may also 
contribute to the timing of the Th1/Th2 switch including the rate of
proliferation of Th1/Th2 responses at the site of infection, efficiency at which 
immune responses cross-inhibit each other, and the rate at which Th1 response
becomes exhausted over time. Our basic model reasonably well explains four
different kinetic patterns of the Th1/Th2 responses in MAP-infected sheep by
variability in the initial bacterial dose and the efficiency of the MAP-specific 
T cell responses. Taken together, our novel mathematical model identifies factors
of bacterial and host origin that drive kinetics of the immune response to MAP
and provides the basis for testing the impact of vaccination or early treatment
on the duration of infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003414 
PMCID: PMC3886887
PMID: 24415928  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Infect Dis. 2014 Apr 15;209(8):1156-64. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiu012. Epub 2014
Jan 9.

Effect of 24 weeks of statin therapy on systemic and vascular inflammation in
HIV-infected subjects receiving antiretroviral therapy.

Eckard AR(1), Jiang Y, Debanne SM, Funderburg NT, McComsey GA.

Author information: 
(1)Emory University School of Medicine.

Comment in
    J Infect Dis. 2014 Apr 15;209(8):1149-50.

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals are at
increased risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) due in part to inflammation.
Statins decrease inflammation in the general population, but their effect during 
HIV infection is largely unknown.
METHODS: This is an ongoing randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial 
to evaluate the effect of statin therapy on inflammatory markers during HIV
infection. Subjects received rosuvastatin 10 mg daily or placebo for 24 weeks.
Subjects were receiving stable (>12 weeks) antiretroviral therapy and had a
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level of ≤130 mg/dL and evidence of
heightened immune activation or inflammation. This was a prespecified interim
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 147 subjects were enrolled (78% were male, 70% were black,
and the median age was 47 years). By 24 weeks, LDL cholesterol levels had
decreased in the statin group, compared with an increase in the placebo group
(-28% vs +3.8%; P < .01). A 10% reduction in the lipoprotein-associated
phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) level was seen in the statin group, compared with a 2%
reduction in the placebo group (P < .01). In multivariable regression, receipt of
statin treatment and having a nadir CD4(+) T-cell count of ≤100 cell/µL were the 
only statistically significant predictors of a decrease in Lp-PLA2 level. Markers
of systemic inflammation did not change significantly between groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Twenty-four weeks of rosuvastatin therapy significantly decreased
the level of Lp-PLA2, a vascular-specific, inflammatory enzyme that predicts
cardiovascular events in the general population. Statins may hold promise as a
means of attenuating CVD risk in HIV-infected individuals by decreasing Lp-PLA2
levels.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiu012 
PMCID: PMC3969551
PMID: 24415784  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Immunol. 2014 Feb 15;192(4):1512-24. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1301619. Epub 2014
Jan 10.

Posttranscriptional modulation of cytokine production in T cells for the
regulation of excessive inflammation by TFL.

Minagawa K(1), Wakahashi K, Kawano H, Nishikawa S, Fukui C, Kawano Y, Asada N,
Sato M, Sada A, Katayama Y, Matsui T.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Kobe University Graduate
School of Medicine, Kobe 650-0017, Japan.

Posttranscriptional machinery regulates inflammation and is associated with
autoimmunity as well as tumorigenesis in collaboration with transcription
factors. We previously identified the tumor suppressor gene transformed
follicular lymphoma (TFL) on 6q25 in a patient with follicular lymphoma, which
transformed into diffuse large B cell lymphoma. TFL families have a common RNase 
domain that governs macrophage-mediated inflammation. In human peripheral blood, 
TFL is dominantly expressed at the glycine- and tryptophan-rich cytoplasmic
processing bodies of T lymphocytes, and it is persistently upregulated in
activated T cells. To address its physiological role, we established TFL(-/-)
mice in which TFL(-/-) lymphocytes proliferated more rapidly than TFL(+/+) upon
stimulation with inappropriate cytokine secretion, including IL-2, IL-6, and
IL-10. Moreover, TFL inhibited the synthesis of cytokines such as IL-2, IL-6,
IL-10, TNF-α, and IL-17a by 3' untranslated region RNA degradation. Experimental 
autoimmune encephalitis induced in TFL(-/-) mice demonstrated persistent severe
paralysis. CNS-infiltrated CD4(+) T cells in TFL(-/-) mice contained a higher
proportion of Th17 cells than did those in TFL(+/+) mice during the resolution
phase, and IL-17a mRNA levels were markedly increased in TFL(-/-) cells. These
results suggest that TFL may play an important role in attenuating local
inflammation by suppressing the infiltration of Th17 cells in the CNS during the 
resolution phase of experimental autoimmune encephalitis. TFL is a novel gradual 
and persistent posttranscriptional regulator, and the TFL-driven attenuation of
excessive inflammation could contribute to recovery from T cell-mediated
autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1301619 
PMID: 24415781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Biol Chem. 2014 Mar 7;289(10):6949-59. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.492132. Epub 2014 
Jan 10.

HIV-1 triggers WAVE2 phosphorylation in primary CD4 T cells and macrophages,
mediating Arp2/3-dependent nuclear migration.

Spear M(1), Guo J, Turner A, Yu D, Wang W, Meltzer B, He S, Hu X, Shang H, Kuhn
J, Wu Y.

Author information: 
(1)From the National Center for Biodefense and Infectious Diseases, Department of
Molecular and Microbiology, George Mason University, Manassas, Virginia 20110.

The human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) initiates receptor signaling and 
early actin dynamics during viral entry. This process is required for viral
infection of primary targets such as resting CD4 T cells. WAVE2 is a component of
a multiprotein complex linking receptor signaling to dynamic remodeling of the
actin cytoskeleton. WAVE2 directly activates Arp2/3, leading to actin nucleation 
and filament branching. Although several bacterial and viral pathogens target
Arp2/3 for intracellular mobility, it remains unknown whether HIV-1 actively
modulates the Arp2/3 complex through virus-mediated receptor signal transduction.
Here we report that HIV-1 triggers WAVE2 phosphorylation at serine 351 through
gp120 binding to the chemokine coreceptor CXCR4 or CCR5 during entry. This
phosphorylation event involves both Gαi-dependent and -independent pathways, and 
is conserved both in X4 and R5 viral infection of resting CD4 T cells and primary
macrophages. We further demonstrate that inhibition of WAVE2-mediated Arp2/3
activity through stable shRNA knockdown of Arp3 dramatically diminished HIV-1
infection of CD4 T cells, preventing viral nuclear migration. Inhibition of
Arp2/3 through a specific inhibitor, CK548, also drastically inhibited HIV-1
nuclear migration and infection of CD4 T cells. Our results suggest that Arp2/3
and the upstream regulator, WAVE2, are essential co-factors hijacked by HIV for
intracellular migration, and may serve as novel targets to prevent HIV
transmission.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.492132 
PMCID: PMC3945356
PMID: 24415754  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2014 May;69(5):1390-6. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt517. Epub 2014
Jan 10.

Effectiveness of ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor monotherapy in the clinical
setting: same results as in clinical trials? The PIMOCS Study Group.

Curran A(1), Monteiro P, Domingo P, Villar J, Imaz A, Martínez E, Fernández I,
Knobel H, Podzamczer D, Iribarren JA, Peñaranda M, Crespo M; PIMOCS Study Group.

Collaborators: Curran A, Ribera E, Navarro J, Crespo M, Monteiro P, Martínez E,
Fernández I, Domingo P, Villar J, Knobel H, Imaz A, Podzamczer D, Ibarguren M,
Iribarren JA, Peñaranda M, Riera M.

Author information: 
(1)Infectious Diseases Department, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron,
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Ritonavir-boosted protease inhibitor monotherapy (PIMT) is a
maintenance strategy that prevents nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor
toxicity and reduces costs. Some trials compare PIMT with combined antiretroviral
therapy, but restricted selection criteria and low sample size hamper data
extrapolation to routine practice. Here, we analyse the effectiveness and safety 
of PIMT in clinical practice.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, observational, multicentre study. Adult HIV-1 
patients receiving PIMT with darunavir or lopinavir were included. A Cox
regression model identified independent predictors for virological failure (VF).
RESULTS: A total of 664 patients (435 on darunavir/ritonavir and 229 on
lopinavir/ritonavir) [74% male, median age of 54 years, one-third with previous
protease inhibitor VF, CD4 nadir 189 cells/mm(3) and 42% coinfected with
hepatitis C virus (HCV)] were analysed. After a median follow-up of 16 months,
78% of patients (95% CI 74%-81%) remained free from therapeutic failure (TF)
(change between ritonavir-boosted PIs not considered failure). At 12 months, by
intention-to-treat analysis (change between ritonavir-boosted PIs equals
failure), 83% of patients were free from TF (87% darunavir/ritonavir versus 77%
lopinavir/ritonavir, P = 0.001). Regarding VF, 88% of patients maintained viral
suppression at 12 months (93% darunavir/ritonavir versus 88% lopinavir/ritonavir,
P = not significant). CD4 nadir <200 cells/mm(3) [hazard ratio (HR) 1.58, 95% CI 
1.01-2.49] and undetectable viral load prior to PIMT <24 months (HR 1.86, 95% CI 
1.20-2.91) were independent predictors for VF. Prior protease inhibitor failure, 
HCV coinfection and the protease inhibitor/ritonavir used were not associated
with PIMT outcome. A total of 158 patients stopped PIMT, 6% due to adverse
events. Two patients developed encephalitis.
CONCLUSIONS: PIMT effectiveness was consistent with data from clinical trials.
Viral suppression duration prior to PIMT and CD4 cell count nadir were
independent predictors for PIMT outcome.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkt517 
PMID: 24415645  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2014 Feb;239(2):193-201. doi: 10.1177/1535370213514921.
Epub 2014 Jan 10.

The regulatory T cell effector soluble fibrinogen-like protein 2 induces tubular 
epithelial cell apoptosis in renal transplantation.

Zhao Z(1), Yang C, Wang L, Li L, Zhao T, Hu L, Rong R, Xu M, Zhu T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Urology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, 
China.

Acute rejection (AR) hinders renal allograft survival. Tubular epithelial cell
(TEC) apoptosis contributes to premature graft loss in AR, while the mechanism
remains unclear. Soluble fibrinogen-like protein 2 (sFGL2), a novel effector of
regulatory T cells (Treg), induces apoptosis to mediate tissue injury. We
previously found that serum sFGL2 significantly increased in renal allograft
rejection patients. In this study, the role of sFGL2 in AR was further
investigated both in vivo and in vitro. The serum level of sFGL2 and the
percentage of CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+) Treg in the peripheral blood were measured in
renal allograft recipients with AR or stable renal function (n = 30 per group).
The human TEC was stimulated with sFGL2, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, or
phosphate buffered saline and investigated for apoptosis in vitro.
Apoptosis-associated genes expression in TEC was further assessed. Approval for
this study was obtained from the Ethics Committee of Fudan University. Our
results showed that the serum level of sFGL2, correlated with Treg in the
peripheral blood, was significantly increased in the AR patients. In vitro, sFGL2
remarkably induced TEC apoptosis, with a significant up-regulation of
proapoptotic genes, including CASP-3, CASP-8, CASP-9, CASP-10, TRADD, TNFSF10,
FADD, FAS, FASLG, BAK1, BAD, BAX, and NF-KB1. However, no significant changes
were observed in the expression of antiapoptotic genes, including CARD-18, NAIP, 
BCL2, IKBKB, and TBK1. Therefore, sFGL2, an effector of Treg, induces TEC
apoptosis. Our study suggests that sFGL2 is a potential mediator in the
pathogenesis of allograft rejection and provides novel insights into the role of 
Treg in AR.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370213514921 
PMID: 24414480  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Blood Cancer J. 2014 Jan 10;4:e172. doi: 10.1038/bcj.2013.70.

Lack of common TCRA and TCRB clonotypes in CD8(+)/TCRαβ(+) T-cell large granular 
lymphocyte leukemia: a review on the role of antigenic selection in the
immunopathogenesis of CD8(+) T-LGL.

Sandberg Y(1), Kallemeijn MJ(1), Dik WA(1), Tielemans D(1), Wolvers-Tettero
IL(1), van Gastel-Mol EJ(1), Szczepanski T(2), Pol Y(1), Darzentas N(3), van
Dongen JJ(1), Langerak AW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam,
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)1] Department of Immunology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands [2] Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology,
Medical University of Silesia, Zabrze, Poland.
(3)Institute of Agrobiotechnology, Center for Research and Technology Hellas,
Thessaloniki, Greece.

Clonal CD8(+)/T-cell receptor (TCR)αβ(+) T-cell large granular lymphocyte (T-LGL)
proliferations constitute the most common subtype of T-LGL leukemia. Although the
etiology of T-LGL leukemia is largely unknown, it has been hypothesized that
chronic antigenic stimulation contributes to the pathogenesis of this disorder.
In the present study, we explored the association between expanded TCR-Vβ and
TCR-Vα clonotypes in a cohort of 26 CD8(+)/TCRαβ(+) T-LGL leukemia patients, in
conjunction with the HLA-ABC genotype, to find indications for common antigenic
stimuli. In addition, we applied purpose-built sophisticated computational tools 
for an in-depth evaluation of clustering of TCRβ (TCRB) complementarity
determining region 3 (CDR3) amino-acid LGL clonotypes. We observed a lack of
clear TCRA and TCRB CDR3 homology in CD8(+)/TCRαβ(+) T-LGL, with only low level
similarity between small numbers of cases. This is in strong contrast to the
homology that is seen in CD4(+)/TCRαβ(+) T-LGL and TCRγδ(+) T-LGL and thus
underlines the idea that the LGL types have different etiopathogenesis. The
heterogeneity of clonal CD8(+)/TCRαβ(+) T-LGL proliferations might in fact
suggest that multiple pathogens or autoantigens are involved.

DOI: 10.1038/bcj.2013.70 
PMCID: PMC3913939
PMID: 24413066 


36. Nat Med. 2014 Feb;20(2):139-42. doi: 10.1038/nm.3445. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

HIV-1 persistence in CD4+ T cells with stem cell-like properties.

Buzon MJ(1), Sun H(2), Li C(3), Shaw A(3), Seiss K(3), Ouyang Z(3), Martin-Gayo
E(3), Leng J(3), Henrich TJ(4), Li JZ(4), Pereyra F(5), Zurakowski R(6), Walker
BD(7), Rosenberg ES(8), Yu XG(3), Lichterfeld M(8).

Author information: 
(1)1] Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA. [2] Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge,
Massachusetts, USA.
(2)1] Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [2]
Key Laboratory of AIDS Immunology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First
Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning Province,
China.
(3)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.
(5)1] Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [2]
Division of Infectious Diseases, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.
(6)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Delaware,
Newark, Delaware, USA.
(7)1] Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. [2]
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland, USA.
(8)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Microbiol. 2014 Apr;22(4):173-5.

Cellular HIV-1 reservoirs that persist despite antiretroviral treatment are
incompletely defined. We show that during suppressive antiretroviral therapy,
CD4(+) T memory stem cells (TSCM cells) harbor high per-cell levels of HIV-1 DNA 
and make increasing contributions to the total viral CD4(+) T cell reservoir over
time. Moreover, we conducted phylogenetic studies that suggested long-term
persistence of viral quasispecies in CD4(+) TSCM cells. Thus, HIV-1 may exploit
the stem cell characteristics of cellular immune memory to promote long-term
viral persistence.

DOI: 10.1038/nm.3445 
PMCID: PMC3959167
PMID: 24412925  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Immunity. 2014 Jan 16;40(1):153-65. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2013.11.021. Epub 2014 
Jan 9.

Proatherogenic conditions promote autoimmune T helper 17 cell responses in vivo.

Lim H(1), Kim YU(2), Sun H(3), Lee JH(1), Reynolds JM(4), Hanabuchi S(4), Wu
H(5), Teng BB(6), Chung Y(7).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Immunology and Autoimmune Diseases, University of Texas Health
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(2)Center for Immunology and Autoimmune Diseases, University of Texas Health
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX
77030, USA.
(3)Center for Human Genetics, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of
Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(4)Department of Immunology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77054, USA.
(5)Section of Cardiovascular Research, Department of Medicine, Baylor College of 
Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(6)Center for Human Genetics, Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of
Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Graduate School
of Biomedical Sciences, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston,
Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(7)Center for Immunology and Autoimmune Diseases, University of Texas Health
Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Graduate School of Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX
77030, USA. Electronic address: yeonseok.chung@uth.tmc.edu.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2014 Jan 16;40(1):10-2.

Patients with systemic autoimmune diseases show increased incidence of
atherosclerosis. However, the contribution of proatherogenic factors to
autoimmunity remains unclear. We found that atherogenic mice (herein referred to 
as LDb mice) exhibited increased serum interleukin-17, which was associated with 
increased numbers of T helper 17 (Th17) cells in secondary lymphoid organs. The
environment within LDb mice was substantially favorable for Th17 cell
polarization of autoreactive T cells during homeostatic proliferation, which was 
considerably inhibited by antibodies directed against oxidized low-density
lipoprotein (oxLDL). Moreover, the uptake of oxLDL induced
dendritic-cell-mediated Th17 cell polarization by triggering IL-6 production in a
process dependent on TLR4, CD36, and MyD88. Furthermore, self-reactive CD4(+) T
cells that expanded in the presence of oxLDL induced more profound experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis. These findings demonstrate that proatherogenic
factors promote the polarization and inflammatory function of autoimmune Th17
cells, which could be critical for the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and other 
related autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2013.11.021 
PMCID: PMC3955722
PMID: 24412615  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Hepatol. 2014 May;60(5):1010-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.12.027. Epub 2014 Jan 
8.

Reduced FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells in patients with primary sclerosing
cholangitis are associated with IL2RA gene polymorphisms.

Sebode M(1), Peiseler M(1), Franke B(1), Schwinge D(1), Schoknecht T(1), Wortmann
F(1), Quaas A(2), Petersen BS(3), Ellinghaus E(3), Baron U(4), Olek S(4), Wiegard
C(1), Weiler-Normann C(1), Lohse AW(1), Herkel J(1), Schramm C(5).

Author information: 
(1)I. Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Pathology, University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg,
Germany.
(3)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University of
Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(4)Epiontis GmbH, Berlin, Germany.
(5)I. Department of Medicine, University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg, Germany. Electronic address: cschramm@uke.de.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Recently, genome wide association studies in primary
sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) revealed associations with gene polymorphisms that
potentially could affect the function of regulatory T cells (Treg). The aim of
this study was to investigate Treg in patients with PSC and to associate their
numbers with relevant gene polymorphisms.
METHODS: Treg frequency in blood was assessed by staining for
CD4(+)CD25(high)FOXP3(+)CD127(low) lymphocytes and determination of Treg-specific
FOXP3 gene locus demethylation. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in the
interleukin-2 receptor alpha (IL2RA), the interleukin-2 (IL2) and interleukin-21 
(IL21) gene locus were analysed. Liver biopsies taken at the time of diagnosis
were stained for FOXP3 and CD3. Treg function was assessed in a CFSE-based
suppression assay.
RESULTS: The frequency of Treg in peripheral blood of PSC patients was
significantly decreased. We confirmed this finding by demonstrating a reduction
of non-methylated DNA in the Treg-specific demethylated FOXP3 gene region of
peripheral blood cells in PSC patients. Reduced peripheral Treg numbers were
significantly associated with homozygosity for the major allele of the SNP
"rs10905718" in the IL2RA gene. Intrahepatic FOXP3(+) cell numbers at the time of
initial diagnosis were decreased in PSC as compared to PBC. In addition to
reduced numbers, the suppressive capacity of Treg isolated from PSC patients
seemed to be impaired as compared to healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that Treg impairment may play a role in the
immune dysregulation observed in PSC. Reduced Treg numbers in patients with PSC
are associated with polymorphisms in the IL2RA gene.

Copyright © 2014 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.12.027 
PMID: 24412607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Immunol Lett. 2014 Oct;161(2):179-83. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.022. Epub 2014
Jan 8.

The role of IL-4 and IL-13 in cutaneous Leishmaniasis.

Hurdayal R(1), Brombacher F(2).

Author information: 
(1)International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), Cape
Town Component and Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular Medicine
(IIDMM), Division of Immunology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South
Africa.
(2)International Center for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), Cape
Town Component and Institute of Infectious Diseases and Molecular Medicine
(IIDMM), Division of Immunology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South
Africa. Electronic address: brombacherfrank@gmail.com.

Murine models of Leishmania major infection in the 1980s revealed two distinct,
counter-regulatory populations of CD4(+) T helper (Th) cells, delineated Th1 and 
Th2, and their archetypal cytokines, interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and interleukin
(IL)-4/IL-13, which promoted resistance/susceptibility to infection,
respectively. However, the introduction of global cytokine-deficient mice in the 
1990s revealed pleiotropic immune-regulatory mechanisms of IL-4 and IL-13 that
either controlled or exacerbated disease. This undermined the basic premise that 
IL-4/IL-13 played paramount roles in facilitating a non-healing Th2 response to
Leishmania infection and instead suggested that both IL-4 and IL-13-dependent and
IL-4/IL-13-independent factors orchestrate disease outcome. The recent
characterization of cell-type specific IL-4Rα deficient mice was initiated to
help reconcile these observations and dissect the cell-specific effects of
IL-4/IL-13 during infection. In this review, we summarize original and recent
findings with regard to the role of IL-4 and IL-13 in cutaneous Leishmaniasis.
Using the information discerned from various studies and our conditional IL-4Rα
gene-deficient mice, we particularly discuss the double-edged sword IL-4 (and in 
some Leishmania disease models IL-13) in driving a susceptible Th2 response,
their immune cell targets that support healing or non-healing responses and their
novel role in mediating a Th1 response during disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.022 
PMID: 24412597  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Immunol Lett. 2014 Mar-Apr;158(1-2):134-42. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.020.
Epub 2014 Jan 8.

CD28 ligation in the absence of TCR stimulation up-regulates IL-17A and
pro-inflammatory cytokines in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis T
lymphocytes.

Camperio C(1), Muscolini M(1), Volpe E(2), Di Mitri D(2), Mechelli R(3),
Buscarinu MC(3), Ruggieri S(4), Piccolella E(1), Salvetti M(3), Gasperini C(4),
Battistini L(2), Tuosto L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto Pasteur-Fondazione Cenci Bolognetti, Department of Biology and
Biotechnology Charles Darwin, Sapienza University, Via dei sardi 70, 00185 Rome, 
Italy.
(2)Neuroimmunology Unit, IRCCS Santa Lucia Foundation, 00179 Rome, Italy.
(3)Neurology and Center for Experimental Neurological Therapies (CENTERS), S.
Andrea Hospital, Sapienza University of Rome, 00189 Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, S. Camillo/Forlanini Hospital, 00151 Rome, Italy.
(5)Istituto Pasteur-Fondazione Cenci Bolognetti, Department of Biology and
Biotechnology Charles Darwin, Sapienza University, Via dei sardi 70, 00185 Rome, 
Italy. Electronic address: loretta.tuosto@uniroma1.it.

CD28 is a crucial costimulatory receptor necessary full T cell activation. The
role of CD28 in multiple sclerosis (MS) has been evaluated as the source of
costimulatory signals integrating those delivered by TCR. However, CD28 is also
able to act as a unique signaling receptor and to deliver TCR-independent
autonomous signals, which regulate the expression and production of
pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines. By comparing the cytokine/chemokine
profiles of CD4(+) T cells from relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS)
patients and healthy donors (HD), we found that CD28 engagement without TCR
strongly up-regulates IL-8 and IL-6 expression in RRMS compared to HD. More
interestingly, in RRMS but not in HD, CD28 stimulation selectively induces the
expression of IL-17A by cooperating with IL-6-mediated signals. By using specific
inhibitory drugs, we also identify the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K) as
the critical regulator of CD28 proinflammatory functions in MS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.020 
PMID: 24412596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Nanomedicine. 2014 Jul;10(5):1021-30. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.12.013. Epub 2014 
Jan 8.

Crucial CD8(+) T-lymphocyte cytotoxic role in amphotericin B nanospheres efficacy
against experimental visceral leishmaniasis.

Costa Lima SA(1), Silvestre R(2), Barros D(2), Cunha J(3), Baltazar MT(4),
Dinis-Oliveira RJ(5), Cordeiro-da-Silva A(6).

Author information: 
(1)IBMC-INEB, Infection and Immunology Unit, Parasite Disease Group, University
of Porto, Portugal. Electronic address: slima@ff.up.pt.
(2)IBMC-INEB, Infection and Immunology Unit, Parasite Disease Group, University
of Porto, Portugal.
(3)IBMC-INEB, Infection and Immunology Unit, Parasite Disease Group, University
of Porto, Portugal; Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel Salazar e Faculdade de 
Medicina, Universidade do Porto, Portugal.
(4)IINFACTS - Institute of Research and Advanced Training in Health Sciences and 
Technologies, Department of Sciences, Advanced Institute of Health Sciences-North
(ISCS-N), CESPU, CRL, Gandra, Portugal; Department of Legal Medicine and Forensic
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; REQUIMTE,
Laboratory of Toxicology, Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)IINFACTS - Institute of Research and Advanced Training in Health Sciences and 
Technologies, Department of Sciences, Advanced Institute of Health Sciences-North
(ISCS-N), CESPU, CRL, Gandra, Portugal; Department of Legal Medicine and Forensic
Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; REQUIMTE,
Laboratory of Toxicology, Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Porto, Porto, Portugal; Forensic Sciences Center (CENCIFOR),
Portugal.
(6)IBMC-INEB, Infection and Immunology Unit, Parasite Disease Group, University
of Porto, Portugal; Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of Porto, Portugal.

This work aims to develop poly(d,l-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLGA)-nanospheres
containing amphotericin B (AmB) with suitable physicochemical properties and
anti-parasitic activity for visceral leishmaniasis (VL) therapy. When compared
with unloaded-PLGA-nanospheres, the AmB-loaded PLGA-nanospheres displayed an
increased particle size without affecting the polydispersity and its negative
surface charge. AmB stability in the PLGA-nanospheres was >90% over 60-days at
30°C. The AmB-PLGA-nanospheres demonstrated significant in vitro and in vivo
efficacy and preferential accumulation in the visceral organs. In addition, an
immune-modulatory effect was observed in mice treated with AmB-PLGA-nanospheres, 
correlating with improved treatment efficacy. The in vitro cytotoxic response of 
the T-lymphocytes revealed that AmB-PLGA-nanospheres efficacy against VL
infection was strictly due to the action of CD8(+)- but not CD4(+)-T lymphocytes.
Overall, we demonstrate a crucial role for CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes in the 
efficacy of AmB-PLGA nanospheres, which could represent a potent and affordable
alternative for VL therapy.FROM THE CLINICAL EDITOR: This study demonstrates a
crucial role for CD8+ T lymphocytes in eliminating visceral leishmaniasis in a
murine model by enhancing the cytotoxic efficacy of CD8+ T-cells via
amphotericin-B-PLGA nanospheres, paving a way to a unique, potentially more
potent and cost-effective therapeutic strategy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.12.013 
PMID: 24412471  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Brain Behav Immun. 2014 Mar;37:248-59. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2014.01.001. Epub 2014 
Jan 9.

Effector molecules released by Th1 but not Th17 cells drive an M1 response in
microglia.

Prajeeth CK(1), Löhr K(2), Floess S(2), Zimmermann J(3), Ulrich R(4), Gudi V(1), 
Beineke A(4), Baumgärtner W(5), Müller M(3), Huehn J(2), Stangel M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Neuroimmunology and Neurochemistry, Department of Neurology, Hannover
Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany.
(2)Experimental Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Inhoffenstr.
7, D-38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Bünteweg 
17, D-30559 Hannover, Germany.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Bünteweg 
17, D-30559 Hannover, Germany; Center of Systems Neuroscience, Hannover, Germany.
(6)Clinical Neuroimmunology and Neurochemistry, Department of Neurology, Hannover
Medical School, Carl-Neuberg-Str. 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany; Center of Systems
Neuroscience, Hannover, Germany. Electronic address:
stangel.martin@mh-hannover.de.

Microglia act as sensors of inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) and 
respond to many stimuli. Other key players in neuroinflammatory diseases are CD4+
T helper cell (Th) subsets that characteristically secrete IFN-γ (Th1) or IL-17
(Th17). However, the potential of a distinct cytokine milieu generated by these
effector T cell subsets to modulate microglial phenotype and function is poorly
understood. We therefore investigated the ability of factors secreted by Th1 and 
Th17 cells to induce microglial activation. In vitro experiments wherein
microglia were cultured in the presence of supernatants derived from polarized
Th1 or Th17 cultures, revealed that Th1-associated factors could directly
activate and trigger a proinflammatory M1-type gene expression profile in
microglia that was cell-cell contact independent, whereas Th17 cells or its
associated factors did not have any direct influence on microglia. To assess the 
effects of the key Th17 effector cytokine IL-17A in vivo we used transgenic mice 
in which IL-17A is specifically expressed in astrocytes. Flow cytometric and
histological analysis revealed only subtle changes in the phenotype of microglia 
suggesting only minimal effects of constitutively produced IL-17A on microglia in
vivo. Neither IL-23 signaling nor addition of GM-CSF, a recently described
effector molecule of Th17 cells, changed the incapacity of Th17 cells to activate
microglia. These findings demonstrate a potent effect of Th1 cells on microglia, 
however, the mechanism of how Th17 cells achieve their effect in CNS inflammation
remains unclear.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2014.01.001 
PMID: 24412213  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Brain Behav Immun. 2014 Jul;39:186-93. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 
Jan 10.

Changes in naïve and memory T-cells in elite swimmers during a winter training
season.

Teixeira AM(1), Rama L(2), Carvalho HM(2), Borges G(2), Carvalheiro T(3), Gleeson
M(4), Alves F(5), Trindade H(3), Paiva A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Sport and Physical Activity, Faculty of Sport Sciences and
Physical Education, Coimbra University, Portugal. Electronic address:
ateixeira@fcdef.uc.pt.
(2)Research Center for Sport and Physical Activity, Faculty of Sport Sciences and
Physical Education, Coimbra University, Portugal.
(3)Portuguese Institute for Blood and Transplantation, Coimbra, Portugal.
(4)School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, UK.
(5)CIPER, Faculty of Human Kinetics, University of Lisbon, Portugal.

High intensity training regimens appear to put athletes at a higher risk of
illness. As these have been linked to alterations in the proportions of
differentiated T cells, how training load affects these populations could have
important implications for athlete susceptibility to disease. This study examined
the effect of a winter training season on the proportions of circulating naïve
and memory T cells subsets of high competitive level swimmers. Blood samples were
taken at rest at 4 time-points during the season: before the start of the season 
(t0-September), after 7weeks of an initial period of gradually increasing
training load (t1-November), after 6weeks of an intense training cycle
(t2-February) and 48h after the main competition (t3-April) and from eleven
non-athlete controls at 2 similar time-points (t2 and t3). CD4, CD8 and
gamma-delta (γδ) T cells expressing the naïve (CCR7(+)CD45RA(+)), central-memory 
(CM-CCR7(+)CD45RA(-)), effector-memory (EM-CCR7(-)CD45RA(-)) and terminal
effector (TEMRA-CCR7(-)CD45RA(+)) were quantified by flow cytometry. Statistical 
analyses were performed using multilevel modeling regression. Both T CD4(+) naïve
and CM presented a linear increase in response to the first moment of training
exposure, and had an exponential decrease until the end of the training exposure.
As for TCD4(+) EM, changes were observed from t2 until the end of the training
season with an exponential trend, while TCD4(+) TEMRA increased linearly
throughout the season. TCD8(+) naïve increased at t1 and decreased exponentially 
thereafter. TCD8(+) TEMRA values decreased at t1 and increased exponentially
until t3. γδT-EM had an increase at t1 and an exponential decrease afterwards. In
contrast, γδT-TEMRA decreased at t1 and exponentially increased during the
remaining 20weeks of training. An increase in TEMRA and EM T cells alongside a
decrease in naïve T cells could leave athletes more susceptible to illness in
response to variation in training stimulus during the season.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2014.01.002 
PMID: 24412212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Crohns Colitis. 2014 Jul;8(7):702-7. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2013.12.008. Epub
2014 Jan 8.

Pre-clinical Crohn's disease: diagnosis, treatment and six year follow-up.

Sorrentino D(1), Avellini C(2), Geraci M(3), Vadalà S(4).

Author information: 
(1)Chair of Gastroenterology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medical
Sciences, University of Udine School of Medicine, Udine, Italy; IBD Center,
Division of Gastroenterology, Virginia Tech-Carilion School of Medicine, Roanoke,
VA, USA. Electronic address: drsorrentino@carilionclinic.org.
(2)Chair of Pathology, University of Udine School of Medicine, Udine, Italy.
(3)MRC Centre of Epidemiology for Child Health, UCL Institute of Child Health,
London, UK.
(4)Chair of Gastroenterology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medical
Sciences, University of Udine School of Medicine, Udine, Italy.

Diagnosis of Crohn's disease is usually made at a symptomatic stage. However
diagnosis at a pre-clinical stage might provide valuable information on
etiology/pathogenesis and allow early intervention to alter its natural history. 
We describe here the case of a 27 year old woman who was diagnosed with Crohn's
disease at a completely asymptomatic stage and followed up for more than six
years. She was part of an ongoing screening study in first degree relatives of
Crohn's disease patients. At diagnosis, colonoscopy showed modest inflammation
and few superficial ulcerations and erosions in the ileo-cecal valve and the
terminal ileum. Fecal calprotectin was only modestly elevated. Intestinal
permeability was also increased. During follow-up and while still asymptomatic
the patient was sequentially treated with therapeutic doses of 5-ASA, budesonide,
azathioprine and infliximab in an attempt to stop disease progression. Only
infliximab appeared capable of inducing profound mucosal healing-however the
disease recurred several months after the medication was ceased. Over time,
quantification by immunohistochemistry of a number of cell types and cytokines
revealed a positive correlation between CD4-CD25-FOXP3 (Treg) cell number and
inflammation, a finding potentially consistent with tissue resistance to Tregs'
activity.

Copyright © 2013 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by Elsevier
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2013.12.008 
PMID: 24411923  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Cytotherapy. 2014 Apr;16(4):535-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2013.10.007. Epub 2014
Jan 9.

Human amniotic epithelial cells suppress relapse of corticosteroid-remitted
experimental autoimmune disease.

Liu YH(1), Chan J(2), Vaghjiani V(3), Murthi P(4), Manuelpillai U(3), Toh BH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Inflammatory Diseases, Department of Medicine, Nursing and Health
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia. Electronic address:
yu-han.liu@monash.edu.
(2)Centre for Inflammatory Diseases, Department of Medicine, Nursing and Health
Sciences, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Centre for Genetic Diseases, Monash Institute of Medical Research, Monash
University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, University of Melbourne and Department 
of Perinatal Medicine, Pregnancy Research Centre, Royal Women's Hospital,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND AIMS: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is considered to be a T-cell-mediated
disease. Although MS remits with corticosteroid treatment, the disease relapses
on discontinuation of therapy. Human amniotic epithelial cells (hAEC) from the
placenta are readily accessible in large quantities and have anti-inflammatory
properties. Previously we reported that hAEC given near disease onset ameliorated
clinical signs and decreased myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)-specific
immune responses in MOG-induced experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), 
an experimental MS model.
METHODS: To examine the therapeutic effect of hAEC in a clinically relevant
setting, we first treated MOG peptide-induced EAE mice with a corticosteroid,
prednisolone, in drinking water to induce remission. hAEC were then infused
intravenously into the remitted mice. Anti-MOG antibodies in serum were detected 
by enzyme-linked immunoassay. Splenocyte proliferation was assessed by
(3)H-thymidine incorporation. Immune cell subpopulations in spleens and lymph
nodes and secreted cytokines in splenocyte culture were quantified by flow
cytometry. Central nervous system histology was examined with the use of
hematoxylin and eosin, Luxol fast blue and immunostaining.
RESULTS: With cessation of prednisolone treatment, hAEC delayed EAE relapse for 7
days, and, after another 7 days, largely remitted disease in six of eight
responder mice. Splenocyte proliferation was suppressed, anti-MOG35-55 antibodies
in serum were decreased and interleukin-2 and interleukin-5 production by
splenocytes were elevated after hAEC treatment. In the central nervous system,
hAEC-treated mice had decreased demyelination and fewer macrophages in the
inflammatory infiltrates. hAEC treatment also increased CD4(+)CD25(+)FoxP3(+)
regulatory T cells in inguinal lymph nodes.
CONCLUSIONS: These data demonstrate that the therapeutic effects of hAEC after
corticosteroid treatment in an MS model probably are the consequence of
peripheral immunoregulation. We suggest that hAEC may have potential as a cell
therapy for remitted MS.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for Cellular Therapy. Published by
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2013.10.007 
PMID: 24411589  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Autoimmun. 2014 Jun;51:57-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.11.003. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Differentiation of follicular helper T cells by salivary gland epithelial cells
in primary Sjögren's syndrome.

Gong YZ(1), Nititham J(2), Taylor K(2), Miceli-Richard C(3), Sordet C(1),
Wachsmann D(1), Bahram S(1), Georgel P(1), Criswell LA(2), Sibilia J(1), Mariette
X(3), Alsaleh G(1), Gottenberg JE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Immunorhumatologie moléculaire, INSERM UMR S_1109, Centre de Recherche en
Immunologie et Hématologie, Faculté de Médecine, Fédération de Médecine
Translationnelle de Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France;
Service de Rhumatologie, Centre National de Référence pour les Maladies
Systémiques Autoimmunes Rares, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, Strasbourg,
France.
(2)University of California San Francisco, Rosalind Russell Medical Research
Center for Arthritis, Department of Medicine, 374 Parnassus Avenue, San
Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
(3)Corinne Miceli-Richard, Xavier Mariette: Université Paris-Sud 11,
Rhumatologie, Hôpital Bicêtre, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Le 
Kremlin Bicêtre, France.
(4)Immunorhumatologie moléculaire, INSERM UMR S_1109, Centre de Recherche en
Immunologie et Hématologie, Faculté de Médecine, Fédération de Médecine
Translationnelle de Strasbourg, Université de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France;
Service de Rhumatologie, Centre National de Référence pour les Maladies
Systémiques Autoimmunes Rares, Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, Strasbourg,
France. Electronic address: jacques-eric.gottenberg@chru-strasbourg.fr.

Follicular helper T cells (Tfh), which play a pivotal role in B cell activation
and differentiation in lymphoid structures, secrete IL-21 whose augmented
secretion is a hallmark of several autoimmune diseases. To decipher the cellular 
and molecular interactions occurring in salivary glands of patients suffering
from primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS), we investigated whether salivary gland
epithelial cells (SGECs) were capable to induce Tfh differentiation. Co-cultures 
of naïve CD4(+) T cells and SGECs from both patients with pSS and controls were
performed. Here, we report that IL-6 and ICOSL expression by SGECs contributes to
naïve CD4(+) T differentiation into Tfh cells, as evidenced by their acquisition 
of a specific phenotype, characterized by Bcl-6, ICOS and CXCR5 expression and
IL-21 secretion, but also but by their main functional feature: the capacity to
enhance B lymphocytes survival. We demonstrated an increase of serum IL-21 with
systemic activity. Finally, we analyzed the potential occurrence of a genetic
association between IL-21 or IL-21R gene polymorphisms and pSS or elevated IL-21 
secretion. This study, which demonstrates a direct induction of Tfh
differentiation by SGECs, emphasizes a yet unknown pathogenic role of SGECs and
suggests that Tfh and IL-21 might be relevant biomarkers and/or therapeutic
targets in primary Sjögren's syndrome.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.11.003 
PMID: 24411167  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2014 Mar;71(3):252-64. doi: 10.1111/aji.12198. Epub 2014 Jan
10.

Distribution of immune cells in the human cervix and implications for HIV
transmission.

Trifonova RT(1), Lieberman J, van Baarle D.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

PROBLEM: Knowledge of the mucosal immune cell composition of the human female
genital tract is important for understanding susceptibility to HIV-1.
METHOD OF STUDY: We developed an optimized procedure for multicolor flow
cytometry analysis of immune cells from human cervix to characterize all major
immune cell subsets in the endocervix and ectocervix.
RESULTS: Half of tissue hematopoietic cells were CD14(+) , many of which were
macrophages and about a third were CD11c(+) , most of which were CD103(-)
CD11b(+) CX3CR1(+) DC-SIGN(+) dendritic cells (DCs). The other dominant
population were T cells, with more CD8 than CD4 cells. T cells (both CD8 and CD4)
and B cells were more abundant in the ectocervix than endocervix of
pre-menopausal women; however, CD8(+) T cell and B cell numbers declined in the
ectocervix after menopause, while CD4 T cell counts remained higher. B, NK and
conventional myeloid and plasmocytoid DCs each were a few percent of tissue
hematopoietic cells. Although the ectocervix had more HIV-susceptible CD4(+) T
cells, polarized endocervical explants supported HIV replication significantly
better.
CONCLUSION: Due to their abundance in the genital tract, CX3CR1(+) DC-SIGN(+) DCs
might be important in HIV transmission. Our data also suggest that the columnar
epithelium of the upper genital tract might be a preferential site for HIV
transmission.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.12198 
PMCID: PMC3943534
PMID: 24410939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. BMC Res Notes. 2014 Jan 10;7:26. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-26.

Pneumocystis pneumonia in South African children diagnosed by molecular methods.

Morrow BM(1), Samuel CM, Zampoli M, Whitelaw A, Zar HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatics and Child Health, Red Cross War Memorial Children's
Hospital (RCWMCH), University of Cape Town, 5th Floor Institute of Child Health
Building, Klipfontein Road, Rondebosch 7700, Cape Town, South Africa.
Brenda.morrow@uct.ac.za.

BACKGROUND: Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is an important cause of hospitalization
and mortality in HIV-infected children. However, the incidence of PCP has been
underestimated due to poor sensitivity of diagnostic tests. The use of polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) for pneumocystis has enabled more reliable diagnosis. This
study describes the incidence, clinical features and outcome of PCP in South
African children diagnosed using PCR.
METHODS: A prospective study of children hospitalised in South Africa with
suspected PCP was done from November 2006 to August 2008. Clinical, laboratory
and radiological information were collected. Lower respiratory tract specimens
were obtained for PCP immunofluorescence (IF), real- time PCR for pneumocystis,
bacterial and mycobacterial culture. Nasopharyngeal aspirates were taken for
immunofluorescence (IF), real-time PCR for pneumocystis and PCR for respiratory
viruses. A blood specimen for bacterial culture and for cytomegalovirus PCR was
taken. Children were followed for the duration of their hospitalisation and the
outcome was recorded.
RESULTS: 202 children [median (interquartile range, IQR) age 3.2 (2.1- 4.6)
months] were enrolled; 124 (61.4%) were HIV infected. PCP was identified in 109
(54%) children using PCR, compared to 43 (21%) using IF and Grocott staining (p <
0.0001). Most PCP cases (88, 81%) occurred in HIV-infected children. All 21 cases
(19%) occurring in HIV- negative children had another risk factor for PCP. On
logistic regression, predictive factors for PCP were HIV infection, lack of
fever, high respiratory rate and low oxygen saturation whilst cotrimoxazole
prophylaxis was protective (OR 0.24; 95% CI 0.1 to 0.5; p < 0.002). The case
fatality of children with PCP was higher than those without PCP (32.1% versus
17.2%; relative risk 1.87; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.11 - 3.15). Amongst
HIV-infected children, a CD4 less than 15% was the only independent predictor of 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnostic yield for PCP is more than 2.5 times higher on PCR
than other detection methods. PCP is a very common cause of severe hypoxic
pneumonia and is associated with high mortality in HIV-infected African infants.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-26 
PMCID: PMC3892044
PMID: 24410938  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Am J Transplant. 2014 Feb;14(2):284-94. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12596. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Key role for CD4 T cells during mixed antibody-mediated rejection of renal
allografts.

Gaughan A(1), Wang J, Pelletier RP, Nadasdy T, Brodsky S, Roy S, Lodder M, Bobek 
D, Mofatt-Bruce S, Fairchild RL, Henry ML, Hadley GA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, 
OH.

We utilized mouse models to elucidate the immunologic mechanisms of functional
graft loss during mixed antibody-mediated rejection of renal allografts (mixed
AMR), in which humoral and cellular responses to the graft occur concomitantly.
Although the majority of T cells in the graft at the time of rejection were CD8 T
cells with only a minor population of CD4 T cells, depletion of CD4 but not CD8
cells prevented acute graft loss during mixed AMR. CD4 depletion eliminated
antidonor alloantibodies and conferred protection from destruction of renal
allografts. ELISPOT revealed that CD4 T effectors responded to donor alloantigens
by both the direct and indirect pathways of allorecognition. In transfer studies,
CD4 T effectors primed to donor alloantigens were highly effective at promoting
acute graft dysfunction, and exhibited the attributes of effector T cells. Laser 
capture microdissection and confirmatory immunostaining studies revealed that CD4
T cells infiltrating the graft produced effector molecules with graft destructive
potential. Bioluminescent imaging confirmed that CD4 T effectors traffic to the
graft site in immune replete hosts. These data document that host CD4 T cells can
promote acute dysfunction of renal allografts by directly mediating graft injury 
in addition to facilitating antidonor alloantibody responses.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society
of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12596 
PMCID: PMC4128005
PMID: 24410909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Am J Transplant. 2014 Mar;14(3):685-93. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12592. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Immune responses to collagen-IV and fibronectin in renal transplant recipients
with transplant glomerulopathy.

Angaswamy N(1), Klein C, Tiriveedhi V, Gaut J, Anwar S, Rossi A, Phelan D, Wellen
JR, Shenoy S, Chapman WC, Mohanakumar T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO.

Antibodies (Abs) to donor HLA (donor-specific antibodies [DSA]) have been
associated with transplant glomerulopathy (TG) following kidney transplantation
(KTx). Immune responses to tissue-restricted self-antigens (self-Ags) have been
proposed to play a role in chronic rejection. We determined whether KTx with TG
have immune responses to self-Ags, Collagen-IV (Col-IV) and fibronectin (FN). DSA
were determined by solid phase assay, Abs against Col-IV and FN by enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay and CD4+ T cells secreting interferon gamma (IFN-γ), IL-17 or
IL-10 by ELISPOT. Development of Abs to self-Ags following KTx increased the risk
for TG with an odds ratio of 22 (p-value = 0.001). Abs to self-Ags were IgG and
IgM isotypes. Pretransplant Abs to self-Ags increased the risk of TG (22% vs.
10%, p < 0.05). Abs to self-Ags were identified frequently in KTx with DSA. TG
patients demonstrated increased Col-IV and FN specific CD4+ T cells secreting
IFN-γ and IL-17 with reduction in IL-10. We conclude that development of Abs to
self-Ags is a risk factor and having both DSA and Abs to self-Ags increases the
risk for TG. The increased frequency of self-Ag-specific IFN-γ and IL-17 cells
with reduction in IL-10 demonstrate tolerance breakdown to self-Ags which we
propose play a role in the pathogenesis of TG.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society
of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12592 
PMID: 24410875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Am J Transplant. 2014 Feb;14(2):305-18. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12575. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Alloanergization of human T cells results in expansion of alloantigen-specific
CD8(+) CD28(-) suppressor cells.

Barbon CM(1), Davies JK, Voskertchian A, Kelner RH, Brennan LL, Nadler LM, Guinan
EC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA.

Allostimulation with concurrent costimulatory blockade induces
alloantigen-specific hyporesponsiveness in responder T cells
("alloanergization"). Alloanergized responder cells also acquire
alloantigen-specific suppressive activity, suggesting this strategy induces
active immune tolerance. While this acquired suppressive activity is mediated
primarily by CD4(+) FOXP3(+) cells, other cells, most notably CD8(+) suppressor
cells, have also been shown to ameliorate human alloresponses. To determine
whether alloanergization expands CD8(+) cells with allosuppressive phenotype and 
function, we used mixed lymphocyte cultures in which costimulatory blockade was
provided by belatacept, an FDA-approved, second-generation CTLA-4-immunoglobulin 
fusion protein that blocks CD28-mediated costimulation, as an in vitro model of
HLA-mismatched transplantation. This strategy resulted in an eightfold expansion 
of CD8(+) CD28(-) T cells which potently and specifically suppressed
alloresponses of both CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells without reducing the frequency of
a range of functional pathogen-specific T cells. This CD8-mediated
allosuppression primarily required cell-cell contact. In addition, we observed
expansion of CD8(+) CD28(-) T cells in vivo in patients undergoing alloanergized 
HLA-mismatched bone marrow transplantation. Use of costimulatory
blockade-mediated alloanergization to expand allospecific CD8(+) CD28(-)
suppressor cells merits exploration as an approach to inducing or supporting
immune tolerance to alloantigens after allogeneic transplantation.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society
of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12575 
PMID: 24410845  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. PLoS Biol. 2014 Jan;12(1):e1001759. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001759. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Direct type I IFN but not MDA5/TLR3 activation of dendritic cells is required for
maturation and metabolic shift to glycolysis after poly IC stimulation.

Pantel A(1), Teixeira A(1), Haddad E(2), Wood EG(3), Steinman RM(1), Longhi
MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Physiology and Immunology and Christopher H. Browne
Center for Immunology and Immune Diseases, The Rockefeller University, New York, 
New York, United States of America.
(2)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Institute of Florida, Port St. Lucie, Florida, United
States of America.
(3)William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and The London School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Queen Mary, University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Laboratory of Cellular Physiology and Immunology and Christopher H. Browne
Center for Immunology and Immune Diseases, The Rockefeller University, New York, 
New York, United States of America ; William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and
The London School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary, University of London,
London, United Kingdom.

Type I interferons (IFNs) play an important role in direct antiviral defense as
well as linking the innate and adaptive immune responses. On dendritic cells
(DCs), IFNs facilitate their activation and contribute to CD8(+) and CD4(+) T
cell priming. However, the precise molecular mechanism by which IFNs regulate
maturation and immunogenicity of DCs in vivo has not been studied in depth. Here 
we show that, after in vivo stimulation with the TLR ligand poly IC, IFNs
dominate transcriptional changes in DCs. In contrast to direct TLR3/mda5
signaling, IFNs are required for upregulation of all pathways associated with DC 
immunogenicity. In addition, metabolic pathways, particularly the switch from
oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis, are also regulated by IFNs and required 
for DC maturation. These data provide evidence for a metabolic reprogramming
concomitant with DC maturation and offer a novel mechanism by which IFNs modulate
DC maturation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001759 
PMCID: PMC3883643
PMID: 24409099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


53. Tumour Biol. 2014 May;35(5):4411-7. doi: 10.1007/s13277-013-1580-7. Epub 2014 Jan
10.

Recombinant adenoviral vector expressing human wild-type p53, GM-CSF, and B7-1
genes suppresses the growth of glioma in vivo.

Feng S(1), Han S, Pan D, Liu M, Feng X, Dong T, Li W, Wei X.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, General Hospital of Shenyang Military Area Command
of Chinese PLA, 83 Wenhua Road, Shenyang, Liaoning, 110016, China.

Malignant gliomas are the most common of primary brain tumors and have been
proven incurable with conventional treatments. Evidence have shown that a
recombinant adenoviral vector expressing human wild-type p53,
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and B7-1 genes
(BB-102) may have antitumor effects in vitro. In this study, we investigated the 
effects of BB-102-based vaccine on glioma in vivo. An animal model using nonobese
diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency (NOD/SCID) mice with human immune
system was established. The mice were vaccinated with inactivated U251 glioma
cells transduced with BB-102 or adenoviral vector expressing green fluorescence
protein (Ad-GFP) as a control and followed by the challenge of live U251 glioma
cells. Tumor growth and antitumor responses were measured. Data showed that mice 
vaccinated with BB-102 had significantly reduced local tumor growth compared to
mice with Ad-GFP vaccination or the control group. Histopathological analysis
displayed low tumor cell density and significant infiltration of human peripheral
blood lymphocytes (HuPBLs) in the tumor tissues of mice transduced with BB-102.
Immunohistochemical analysis showed that mutant p53 was not expressed in tumor
tissues of mice with BB-102 vaccination, and the expression level of Ki67 was
significantly lower in the tumor tissues of the BB-102 group than those in the
Ad-GFP group or the control group. Further study demonstrated that mice with
BB-102 vaccination had significantly increased total T cell numbers, total T cell
proportion, CD4+ T cell proportion, and CD8+ T cell proportion in spleens, as
well as higher value of IgG, IgA, and IgE in sera. These data suggest that the
recombinant adenoviral vector expressing human wild-type p53, GM-CSF, and B7-1
genes could suppress glioma in NOD/SCID mice model and might be considered as a
novel strategy for glioma therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-013-1580-7 
PMID: 24408016  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014 Apr;20(4):450-62. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.01.002. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Immune cell subset counts associated with graft-versus-host disease.

Podgorny PJ(1), Liu Y(2), Dharmani-Khan P(2), Pratt LM(2), Jamani K(2), Luider
J(2), Auer-Grzesiak I(2), Mansoor A(2), Williamson TS(2), Ugarte-Torres A(2),
Hoegh-Petersen M(2), Stewart DA(2), Daly A(2), Khan FM(2), Russell JA(2), Storek 
J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Alberta, Canada. Electronic address: pjpodgor@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary,
Alberta, Canada.

Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a major transplantation complication. The
purpose of this study was to measure immune cell subsets by flow cytometry early 
after transplantation (before median day of GVHD onset) to identify subsets that 
may play a role in GVHD pathogenesis. We also measured the subsets later after
transplantation to determine which subsets may be influenced by GVHD or its
treatment. We studied 219 patients. We found that acute GVHD (aGVHD) was preceded
by high counts of CD4 T cells and CD8 T cells. It was followed by low counts of
total and naive B cells, total and cytolytic NK cells, and myeloid and
plasmacytoid dendritic cells. Chronic GVHD (cGVHD) was preceded by low counts of 
memory B cells. In conclusion, both CD4 and CD8 T cells appear to play a role in 
the pathogenesis of aGVHD. Generation of B cells, NK cells, and dendritic cells
may be hampered by aGVHD and/or its treatment. Memory B cells may inhibit the
development of cGVHD.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.01.002 
PMID: 24406506  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2014 Apr;20(4):507-17. doi:
10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.01.001. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Long-term immune reconstitution and infection burden after mismatched
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Servais S(1), Lengline E(1), Porcher R(2), Carmagnat M(3), Peffault de Latour
R(1), Robin M(1), Sicre de Fontebrune F(1), Clave E(4), Maki G(3), Granier C(3), 
Xhaard A(1), Dhedin N(1), Molina JM(5), Toubert A(6), Moins-Teisserenc H(6),
Socie G(7).

Author information: 
(1)Service d'Hématologie Greffe, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France.
(2)AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, DBIM, Paris, France.
(3)Immunologie, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France.
(4)Immunologie, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France; Inserm U 940, Hôpital
Saint Louis, Paris, France.
(5)Service des Maladies Infectieuses et Tropicales, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis,
Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France.
(6)Immunologie, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France; Inserm U 940, Hôpital
Saint Louis, Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité,
France.
(7)Service d'Hématologie Greffe, AP-HP Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France; Inserm
U 940, Hôpital Saint Louis, Paris, France; Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne
Paris Cité, France. Electronic address: gerard.socie@sls.aphp.fr.

Mismatched unrelated donor (MMUD) or umbilical cord blood (UCB) can be chosen as 
alternative donors for allogeneic stem cell transplantation but might be
associated with long-lasting immune deficiency. Sixty-six patients who underwent 
a first transplantation from either UCB (n = 30) or 9/10 MMUD (n = 36) and who
survived beyond 3 months were evaluated. Immune reconstitution was prospectively 
assessed at sequential time points after transplantation. NK, B, CD4(+), and
CD8(+) T cells and their naïve and memory subsets, as well as regulatory T cells 
(Treg), were studied. Detailed analyses on infections occurring after 3 months
were also assessed. The 18-month cumulative incidences of infection-related death
were 8% and 3%, and of infections were 72% and 57% after MMUD and UCB
transplantation, respectively. Rates of infection per 12 patient-month were
roughly 2 overall (1 for bacterial, .9 for viral, and .3 for fungal infections). 
Memory, naïve CD4(+) and CD8(+)T cells, naïve B cells, and Treg cells
reconstitution between the 2 sources were roughly similar. Absolute CD4(+)T cells
hardly reached 500 per μL by 1 year after transplantation and most B cells were
of naïve phenotype. Correlations between immune reconstitution and infection were
then performed by multivariate analyses. Low CD4(+) and high CD8(+)T cells
absolute counts at 3 months were linked to increased risks of overall and viral
(but not bacterial) infections. When assessing for the naïve/memory phenotypes at
3 months among the CD4(+) T cell compartment, higher percentages of memory
subsets were protective against late infections. Central memory CD4(+)T cells
protected against overall and bacterial infections; late effector memory CD4(+)T 
cells protected against overall, bacterial, and viral infections. To the
contrary, high percentage of effector- and late effector-memory subsets at 3
months among the CD8(+) T cell compartment predicted higher risks for viral
infections. Patients who underwent transplantation from alternative donors
represent a population with very high risk of infection. Detailed phenotypic
analysis of immune reconstitution may help to evaluate infection risk and to
adjust infection prophylaxis.

Copyright © 2014 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. Published
by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2014.01.001 
PMID: 24406505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Immunol Lett. 2014 Mar-Apr;158(1-2):159-66. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.019.
Epub 2014 Jan 7.

IL-7 inhibits tumor growth by promoting T cell-mediated antitumor immunity in
Meth A model.

Tang JC(1), Shen GB(2), Wang SM(2), Wan YS(3), Wei YQ(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, North Sichuan Medical University, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, West China Medical
School, Sichuan University, China.
(3)Department of Thoracic Oncology, West China Hospital, West China Medical
School, Sichuan University, China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, West China Medical
School, Sichuan University, China. Electronic address: weiyuquan1959@163.com.

Immune suppression is well documented during tumor progression, which includes
loss of effect of T cells and expansion of T regulatory (Treg) cells. IL-7 plays 
a key role in the proliferation, survival and homeostasis of T cells and displays
a potent antitumor activity in vivo. In the present study, we investigated the
antitumor effect of IL-7 in Meth A model. IL-7 inhibited tumor growth and
prolonged the survival of tumor-bearing mice with corresponding increases in the 
frequency of CD4 and CD8 T cells, Th1 (CD4(+)IFN-γ(+)), Tc1 (CD8(+)IFN-γ(+)) and 
T cells cytolytic activity against Meth A cells. Neutralization of CD4 or CD8 T
cells reversed the antitumor benefit of IL-7. Furthermore, IL-7 decreased
regulatory T Foxp3 as well as cells suppressive activity with a reciprocal
increase in SMAD7. In addition, we observed an increase of the serum
concentrations of IL-6 and IFN-γ, and a significant decrease of TGF-β and IL-10
after IL-7 treatment. Taken together, these results indicate that IL-7 augments T
cell-mediated antitumor immunity and improves the effect of antitumor in Meth A
model.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.12.019 
PMID: 24406503  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Vaccine. 2014 Feb 19;32(9):1093-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.12.053. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Generation of a safety enhanced Salmonella Gallinarum ghost using antibiotic
resistance free plasmid and its potential as an effective inactivated vaccine
candidate against fowl typhoid.

Jawale CV(1), Chaudhari AA(2), Lee JH(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Chonbuk National University, Jeonju 561-756,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: cjbiotech@gmail.com.
(2)College of Veterinary Medicine, Chonbuk National University, Jeonju 561-756,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: atulvet@gmail.com.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Chonbuk National University, Jeonju 561-756,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: johnhlee@jbnu.ac.kr.

A safety enhanced Salmonella Gallinarum (SG) ghost was constructed using an
antibiotic resistance gene free plasmid and evaluated its potential as fowl
typhoid (FT) vaccine candidate. The antibiotic resistance free pYA3342 plasmid
possesses aspartate semialdehyde dehydrogenase gene which is complimentary to the
deletion of the chromosomal asd gene in the bacterial host. This plasmid was
incorporated with a ghost cassette containing the bacteriophage PhiX174 lysis
gene E, designated as pJHL101. The plasmid pJHL101 was transformed into a two
virulence genes-deleted SG. The SG ghosts with tunnel formation and loss of
cytoplasmic contents were observed by scanning electron microscopy and
transmission electron microscopy. The cell viability of the culture solution was 
decreased to 0% at 24h after the induction of gene E expression by an increase in
temperature from 37°C to 42°C. The safety and protective efficacy of the SG ghost
vaccine was further examined in chickens which were divided into three groups:
group A (non-immunized control), group B (orally immunized), and group C
(intramuscularly immunized). The birds were immunized at 7d of age. No clinical
symptoms associated with FT such as anorexia, depression and greenish diarrhea
were observed in the immunized chickens. Upon challenge with a virulent SG strain
at 3 week post-immunization, the chickens immunized with the SG ghost via various
routes were efficiently protected, as shown by significantly lower mortality and 
post-mortem lesions in comparison with control group. In addition, all the
immunized chickens showed significantly higher antibody responses accompanied by 
a potent antigen-specific lymphocyte proliferative response along with
significantly increased numbers of CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T lymphocytes. Overall, our
results provide a promising approach of generating SG ghosts using the antibiotic
resistance free plasmid in order to prepare a non-living bacterial vaccine
candidate which could be environmentally safe yet efficient to prevent FT in
chickens.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.12.053 
PMID: 24406393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2014 Feb;36(2):519-24. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2013.12.022.
Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Impairment of the immune system in GH-overexpressing transgenic zebrafish (Danio 
rerio).

Batista CR(1), Figueiredo MA(2), Almeida DV(1), Romano LA(3), Marins LF(4).

Author information: 
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Fisiológicas, Fisiologia Animal
Comparada, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP
96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS,
Brazil.
(2)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Aquicultura, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil;
Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande-FURG,
Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Aquicultura, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil;
Instituto de Oceanografia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande-FURG, Avenida
Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Ciências Fisiológicas, Fisiologia Animal
Comparada, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP
96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil; Programa de Pós-Graduação em Aquicultura,
Universidade Federal do Rio Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio 
Grande, RS, Brazil; Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Rio
Grande-FURG, Avenida Itália, Km 8, CEP 96201-900 Rio Grande, RS, Brazil.
Electronic address: dqmluf@furg.br.

Growth hormone (GH) is an important regulator of immune functions in vertebrates,
and it has been intensively reported a series of stimulatory actions of this
hormone over on the immune system. Within aquaculture, overexpression of GH has
been considered a promising alternative for promoting higher growth rates in
organisms of commercial interest. Considering the various pleiotropic effects of 
GH, there are still few studies that aim to understand the consequences of the
excess of GH on the physiological systems. In this context, our goal was to
present the effects of the overexpression of GH on immune parameters using a
model of zebrafish (Danio rerio) that overexpress this hormone. The results
showed that GH transgenic zebrafish had 100% of mortality when immunosuppressed
with dexamethasone, revealing a prior weakening of the immune system in this
lineage. Morphometric analysis of thymus and head kidney revealed a reduction in 
the area of these structures in transgenic zebrafish. Moreover, the phenotypic
expression of CD3 and CD4 thymocytes was also depreciated in transgenic
zebrafish. Furthermore, a decrease was noted in the expression of genes RAG-1
(60%), IKAROS (50%), IL-1β (55%), CD4 (60%) and CD247 (40%), indicating that
development parameters, of innate and acquired immunity, are being harmed. Based 
on these results, it can be concluded that the excess of GH impairs the immune
functions in GH transgenic zebrafish, indicating that the maintenance of normal
levels of this hormone is essential for the functioning of immunological
activities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2013.12.022 
PMID: 24406293  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Autoimmun. 2014 Aug;52:53-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.015. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Both Treg cells and Tconv cells are defective in the Myasthenia gravis thymus:
roles of IL-17 and TNF-α.

Gradolatto A(1), Nazzal D(2), Truffault F(3), Bismuth J(4), Fadel E(5), Foti
M(6), Berrih-Aknin S(7).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6,
Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology, Paris, France. Electronic address:
angeline.gradolatto@upmc.fr.
(2)Pasteur Institute, 25-28 Rue du Docteur Roux, 75015 Paris, France. Electronic 
address: dnazzal@gmail.com.
(3)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6,
Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology, Paris, France. Electronic address:
frederique.truffault@upmc.fr.
(4)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6,
Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology, Paris, France. Electronic address:
jacky.bismuth@upmc.fr.
(5)Department of Thoracic and Vascular Surgery and Heart-Lung Transplantation,
Hopital Marie Lannelongue, Le Plessis-Robinson, France. Electronic address:
e.fadel@ccml.fr.
(6)Genopolis Consortium, University of Milano-Bicocca, Piazza della Scienza, 4,
Building U4, 20126 Milan, Italy. Electronic address: maria.foti@unimib.it.
(7)INSERM U974, Paris, France; CNRS UMR 7215, Paris, France; UPMC Univ Paris 6,
Paris, France; AIM, Institute of Myology, Paris, France. Electronic address:
sonia.berrih-aknin@upmc.fr.

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is an autoimmune disease in which the thymus frequently
presents follicular hyperplasia and signs of inflammation and T cells display a
defect in suppressive regulation. Defects in a suppressive assay can indicate
either the defective function of Treg cells or the resistance of Tconv cells to
suppression by Treg cells. The aim of this study was to determine which cells
were responsible for this defect and to address the mechanisms involved. We first
performed cross-experiment studies using purified thymic Treg cells and Tconv
cells from controls (CTRL) and MG patients. We confirmed that MG Treg cells were 
defective in suppressing CTRL Tconv proliferation, and we demonstrated for the
first time that MG Tconv cells were resistant to Treg cell suppression. The
activation of MG Tconv cells triggered a lower upregulation of FoxP3 and a higher
upregulation of CD4 and CD25 than CTRL cells. To investigate the factors that
could explain these differences, we analyzed the transcriptomes of purified
thymic Treg and Tconv cells from MG patients in comparison to CTRL cells. Many of
the pathways revealed by this analysis are involved in other autoimmune diseases,
and T cells from MG patients exhibit a Th1/Th17/Tfh signature. An increase in
IL-17-related genes was only observed in Treg cells, while increases in IFN-γ,
IL-21, and TNF-α were observed in both Treg and Tconv cells. These results were
confirmed by PCR studies. In addition, the role of TNF-α in the defect in Tconv
cells from MG patients was further confirmed by functional studies. Altogether,
our results indicate that the immunoregulatory defects observed in MG patients
are caused by both Treg cell and Tconv cell impairment and involve several
pro-inflammatory cytokines, with TNF-α playing a key role in this process. The
chronic inflammation present in the thymus of MG patients could provide an
explanation for the escape of thymic T cells from regulation in the MG thymus.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.015 
PMID: 24405842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2014 Jan 9;5(1):3. doi: 10.1186/scrt392.

Inhibition of mesenchymal stromal cells by pre-activated lymphocytes and their
culture media.

Valencic E, Loganes C, Cesana S, Piscianz E, Gaipa G, Biagi E, Tommasini A.

INTRODUCTION: Despite having a proven immunosuppressive potential in vitro, human
mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) are reported to display variable efficacy in
vivo and, in fact, their proven benefit in the clinical practice is still limited
and controversial.
METHODS: The interplay between clinical grade MSCs and pre-activated donor
lymphocytes or selected lymphocyte subsets was studied in vitro. The kinetics of 
MSC growth and viability was evaluated by adhesion-dependent changes of culture
plate impedance and biochemically by a colorimetric assay. Activation of natural 
killer (NK) cells was assessed as well, using a flow cytometry assay.
RESULTS: A strong inhibition of MSC growth was rapidly induced by the addition of
pre-activated lymphocytes but not of resting lymphocytes. Inhibition seems not to
be attributable to a single cell population, as similar results can be obtained
by depleting NK cells or by using either selected CD4+ or CD8+ lymphocytes. In
addition, conditioned medium (CM) from activated lymphocytes was able to inhibit 
MSC growth in a dose-dependent manner. Furthermore, licensing with IFN-γ
partially protected MSCs from pre-activated lymphocytes but not from their CM.
These results suggest an inhibitory role of lymphocyte-activation-derived
substances. However, the identification of a single molecule responsible for MSC 
inhibition remained elusive, even if preliminary experiments showed that ATP and,
to a lesser extent, TNF-α might play a role.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that survival of MSCs can be affected by
soluble mediators released by activated lymphocytes. Thus it can be hypothesized 
that MSC immunosuppressive action in vivo could be impaired by ongoing immune
activation through the release of inflammatory mediators.

DOI: 10.1186/scrt392 
PMCID: PMC4055165
PMID: 24405828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jan 10;14:22. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-22.

Latent tuberculosis infection in a Malaysian prison: implications for a
comprehensive integrated control program in prisons.

Al-Darraji HA(1), Kamarulzaman A, Altice FL.

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Excellence for Research in AIDS, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur 59990, Malaysia. hdarraji@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Prisons continue to fuel tuberculosis (TB) epidemics particularly in 
settings where access to TB screening and prevention services is limited.
Malaysia is a middle-income country with a relatively high incarceration rate of 
138 per 100,000 population. Despite national TB incidence rate remaining
unchanged over the past ten years, data about TB in prisons and its contribution 
to the overall national rates does not exist. This survey was conducted to
address the prevalence of latent TB infection (LTBI) in Malaysia's largest
prison.
METHODS: From July to December 2010, all HIV-infected and a comparative group of 
HIV-uninfected prisoners housed separately in Kajang prison were asked to
participate in the survey after explaining the study protocol. Subjects providing
informed consent were interviewed using a structured questionnaire followed by
the placement of tuberculin skin test (TST) with 2 TU of PPD RT-23 to subjects
not being treated for active TB. TST was read after 48-72 hours and indurations
of ≥ 5 mm and ≥ 10 mm were considered positive among HIV-infected and
HIV-uninfected subjects, respectively. Additionally, HIV-infected inmates
underwent phlebotomy for CD4 lymphocyte count assessment. A logistic regression
model was explored to determine factors associated with TST positivity.
RESULTS: Overall, 286 subjects (138 HIV-infected and 148 HIV-uninfected) had
complete data and TST results. The majority were men (95.1%), less than 40 years 
old (median age 36.0, SD 7.87), and Malaysians (93.3%). Most (82.5%) had been
previously incarcerated and more than half (53.1%) reported sharing needles just 
prior to their incarceration. TST was positive in 88.8% (84.7% among HIV-infected
and 92.5% among HIV-uninfected subjects) and was independently associated with
being HIV-uninfected (AOR = 2.97, p = 0.01) and with frequent previous
incarcerations (AOR = 1.22 for every one previous incarceration, p = 0.01) after 
adjusting for other potential confounding factors.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of LTBI was extraordinary high in this sample of
Malaysian prisoners, regardless of their age or HIV status. This warrants further
examination of the size of the problem of TB in other congregate settings and the
establishment of an evidence-based TB control program in Malaysian prisons with
integrated TB, HIV and substance abuse components.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-22 
PMCID: PMC3907782
PMID: 24405607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Arthritis Res Ther. 2014 Jan 10;16(1):R7. doi: 10.1186/ar4433.

Characterization of T cell phenotype and function in a double transgenic
(collagen-specific TCR/HLA-DR1) humanized model of arthritis.

Tang B, Kim S, Hammond S, Cullins DL, Brand DD, Rosloniec EF, Stuart JM,
Postlethwaite AE, Kang AH, Myers LK.

INTRODUCTION: T cells orchestrate joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis
(RA), yet they are difficult to study due to the small numbers of
antigen-specific cells. The goal of this study was to characterize a new
humanized model of autoimmune arthritis and to describe the phenotypic and
functional changes that occur in autoimmune T cells following the induction of
pathological events.
METHODS: We developed a double transgenic mouse containing both the HLA-DR1
transgene and an HLA-DR1-restricted collagen-specific TCR in order to obtain
large numbers of antigen-specific T cells that can be used for immunologic
studies.
RESULTS: In vitro, CII-specific T cells from this mouse proliferated vigorously
in response to the CII immunodominant peptide A2 and the cells altered their
phenotype to become predominately CD62Llow and CD44high "activated" T cells. The 
response was accompanied by the production of Th1, Th2, and Th17-type cytokines. 
Following immunization with bovine CII/CFA, these mice develop an accelerated
arthritis compared to single transgenic HLA-DR1 mice. On the other hand, when the
mice were treated orally with the analog peptide A12, (a suppressive analog of
collagen we have previously described), arthritis was significantly suppressed,
despite the fact that >90% of the CD4+ T cells express the TCR Tg. In GALT
tissues taken from the A12-treated mice, IL-2, IFN-γ, and IL-17 production to the
autoimmune collagen determinant dropped while high levels of IL-10 and IL-4 were 
produced.
CONCLUSIONS: We have developed a humanized model of autoimmune arthritis that
will be useful for the study of T cell directed therapies as well as T cell
mediated mechanisms of autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/ar4433 
PMCID: PMC3978884
PMID: 24405551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Virol. 2014 Mar;88(6):3516-26. doi: 10.1128/JVI.03331-13. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

HIV DNA subspecies persist in both activated and resting memory CD4+ T cells
during antiretroviral therapy.

Murray JM(1), Zaunders JJ, McBride KL, Xu Y, Bailey M, Suzuki K, Cooper DA, Emery
S, Kelleher AD, Koelsch KK; PINT Study Team.

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of New South Wales, Sydney,
NSW, Australia.

The latent HIV reservoir is a major impediment to curing HIV infection. The
contribution of CD4(+) T cell activation status to the establishment and
maintenance of the latent reservoir was investigated by enumerating viral DNA
components in a cohort of 12 individuals commencing antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
containing raltegravir, an integrase inhibitor. Prior to ART, the levels of total
HIV DNA were similar across HLA-DR(+) and HLA-DR(-) (HLA-DR(±)) CD38(±) memory
CD4(+) T cell phenotypes; episomal two-long terminal repeat (2-LTR) HIV DNA
levels were higher in resting (HLA-DR(-) CD38(-)) cells, and this phenotype
exhibited a significantly higher ratio of 2-LTR to integrated HIV DNA (P =
0.002). After 1 year of ART, there were no significant differences across each of
the memory phenotypes of any HIV DNA component. The decay dynamics of integrated 
HIV DNA were slow within each subset, and integrated HIV DNA in the resting
HLA-DR(-) CD38(-) subset per mm(3) of peripheral blood exhibited no significant
decay (half-life of 25 years). Episomal 2-LTR HIV DNA decayed relative to
integrated HIV DNA in resting cells with a half-life of 134 days. Surprisingly,
from week 12 on, the decay rates of both total and episomal HIV DNA were lower in
activated CD38(+) cells. By weeks 24 and 52, HIV RNA levels in plasma were most
significantly correlated with the numbers of resting cells containing integrated 
HIV DNA. On the other hand, total HIV DNA levels in all subsets were
significantly correlated with the numbers of HLA-DR(+) CD38(-) cells containing
integrated HIV DNA. These results provide insights into the interrelatedness of
cell activation and reservoir maintenance, with implications for the design of
therapeutic strategies targeting HIV persistence.IMPORTANCE: It is generally
believed that HIV is not cleared by extensive antiretroviral therapy (ART) due to
the difficulty in eradicating the latent reservoir in resting CD4(+) T cells. New
therapies that attempt to activate this reservoir so that immune or viral
cytopathic mechanisms can remove those infected cells are currently being
investigated. However, results obtained in this research indicate that
activation, at least on some level, already occurs within this reservoir.
Furthermore, we are the first to describe the dynamics of different HIV DNA
species in resting and activated memory CD4+ T cell subsets that point to the
role different levels of activation play in maintaining the HIV reservoir.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.03331-13 
PMCID: PMC3957951
PMID: 24403590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Virol. 2014 Mar;88(6):3474-84. doi: 10.1128/JVI.03286-13. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

The mitochondrial translocator protein, TSPO, inhibits HIV-1 envelope
glycoprotein biosynthesis via the endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein
degradation pathway.

Zhou T(1), Dang Y, Zheng YH.

Author information: 
(1)Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, CAAS-Michigan State University Joint
Laboratory of Innate Immunity, State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, 
Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Harbin, China.

The HIV-1 Env glycoprotein is folded in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), which is 
necessary for viral entry and replication. Currently, it is still unclear how
this process is regulated. The glycoprotein folding in the ER is controlled by
the ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) pathway, which specifically targets 
misfolded proteins for degradation. Previously, we reported that HIV-1
replication is restricted in the human CD4(+) T cell line CEM.NKR (NKR). To
understand this mechanism, we first analyzed cellular protein expression in NKR
cells and discovered that levels of the mitochondrial translocator protein TSPO
were upregulated by ∼64-fold. Notably, when NKR cells were treated with TSPO
antagonist PK-11195, Ro5-4864, or diazepam, HIV restriction was completely
disrupted, and TSPO knockdown by short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) achieved a similar
effect. We next analyzed viral protein expression, and, interestingly, we
discovered that Env expression was specifically inhibited. Both TSPO knockdown
and treatment with TSPO antagonist could restore Env expression in NKR cells. We 
further discovered that Env proteins were rapidly degraded and that kifunensine, 
an ERAD pathway inhibitor, could restore Env expression and viral replication,
indicating that Env proteins were misfolded and degraded through the ERAD pathway
in NKR cells. We also knocked out the TSPO gene in 293T cells using CRISPR/Cas9
(clustered, regularly interspaced, short palindromic repeat
[CRISPR]/CRISPR-associated-9) technology and found that TSPO could similarly
inhibit Env expression in these cells. Taken together, these results demonstrate 
that TSPO inhibits Env protein expression through the ERAD pathway and suggest
that mitochondria play an important role in regulating the Env folding
process.IMPORTANCE: The HIV-1 Env glycoprotein is absolutely required for viral
infection, and an understanding of its expression pathway in infected cells will 
identify new targets for antiretroviral therapies. Env proteins are folded in the
ER and secreted through the classical secretory pathway. The Env folding process 
involves extensive cross-linking of 10 Cys residues by disulfide bond formation
and heavy N-glycosylation on ∼30 Asn residues. Currently, it is still unclear how
this process is regulated. Here, we studied this mechanism in the HIV
nonpermissive human CD4(+) T cell line CEM.NKR. We found that Env proteins were
rapidly degraded through a cellular pathway that specifically targets misfolded
proteins, resulting in inhibition of Env expression. Importantly, we have
identified a mitochondrial translocator protein, TSPO, which could trigger this
degradation by interfering with the Env folding process. Further characterization
of TSPO antiviral activity will reveal a novel antiretroviral mechanism that
targets the Env protein.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.03286-13 
PMCID: PMC3957936
PMID: 24403586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Virol. 2014 Apr;88(7):3612-22. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02823-13. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Small noncoding RNAs in cells transformed by human T-cell leukemia virus type 1: 
a role for a tRNA fragment as a primer for reverse transcriptase.

Ruggero K(1), Guffanti A, Corradin A, Sharma VK, De Bellis G, Corti G, Grassi A, 
Zanovello P, Bronte V, Ciminale V, D'Agostino DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Oncology and Gastroenterology, University of Padua,
Padua, Italy.

The present study employed mass sequencing of small RNA libraries to identify the
repertoire of small noncoding RNAs expressed in normal CD4(+) T cells compared to
cells transformed with human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), the causative
agent of adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATLL). The results revealed distinct
patterns of microRNA expression in HTLV-1-infected CD4(+) T-cell lines with
respect to their normal counterparts. In addition, a search for virus-encoded
microRNAs yielded 2 sequences that originated from the plus strand of the HTLV-1 
genome. Several sequences derived from tRNAs were expressed at substantial levels
in both uninfected and infected cells. One of the most abundant tRNA fragments
(tRF-3019) was derived from the 3' end of tRNA-proline. tRF-3019 exhibited
perfect sequence complementarity to the primer binding site of HTLV-1. The
results of an in vitro reverse transcriptase assay verified that tRF-3019 was
capable of priming HTLV-1 reverse transcriptase. Both tRNA-proline and tRF-3019
were detected in virus particles isolated from HTLV-1-infected cells. These
findings suggest that tRF-3019 may play an important role in priming HTLV-1
reverse transcription and could thus represent a novel target to control HTLV-1
infection.IMPORTANCE: Small noncoding RNAs, a growing family of regulatory RNAs
that includes microRNAs and tRNA fragments, have recently emerged as key players 
in many biological processes, including viral infection and cancer. In the
present study, we employed mass sequencing to identify the repertoire of small
noncoding RNAs in normal T cells compared to T cells transformed with human
T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), a retrovirus that causes adult T-cell
leukemia/lymphoma. The results revealed a distinct pattern of microRNA expression
in HTLV-1-infected cells and a tRNA fragment (tRF-3019) that was packaged into
virions and capable of priming HTLV-1 reverse transcription, a key event in the
retroviral life cycle. These findings indicate tRF-3019 could represent a novel
target for therapies aimed at controlling HTLV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02823-13 
PMCID: PMC3993537
PMID: 24403582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Virol. 2014 Mar;88(6):3557-67. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02776-13. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

MyD88-dependent immunity to a natural model of vaccinia virus infection does not 
involve Toll-like receptor 2.

Davies ML(1), Sei JJ, Siciliano NA, Xu RH, Roscoe F, Sigal LJ, Eisenlohr LC,
Norbury CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine, Pennsylvania
State University, Hershey, Pennsylvania, USA.

Although the pattern recognition receptor Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) is
typically thought to recognize bacterial components, it has been described to
alter the induction of both innate and adaptive immunity to a number of viruses, 
including vaccinia virus (VACV). However, many pathogens that reportedly encode
TLR2 agonists may actually be artifactually contaminated during preparation,
possibly with cellular debris or merely with molecules that sensitize cells to be
activated by authentic TLR2 agonists. In both humans and mice, the most relevant 
natural route of infection with VACV is through intradermal infection of the
skin. Therefore, we examined the requirement for TLR2 and its signaling adaptor
MyD88 in protective immunity to VACV after intradermal infection. We find that
although TLR2 may recognize virus preparations in vitro and have a minor role in 
preventing dissemination of VACV following systemic infection with large doses of
virus, it is wholly disposable in both control of virus replication and induction
of adaptive immunity following intradermal infection. In contrast, MyD88 is
required for efficient induction of CD4 T cell and B cell responses and for local
control of virus replication following intradermal infection. However, even MyD88
is not required to induce local inflammation, inflammatory cytokine production,
or recruitment of cells that restrict virus from spreading systemically after
peripheral infection. Thus, an effective antiviral response does require MyD88,
but TLR2 is not required for control of a peripheral VACV infection. These
findings emphasize the importance of studying relevant routes of infection when
examining innate sensing mechanisms.IMPORTANCE: Vaccinia virus (VACV) provides
the backbone for some of the most widely used and successful viral vaccine
vectors and is also related to the human pathogens Cantagalo virus and molluscum 
contagiosum virus that infect the skin of patients. Therefore, it is vital to
understand the mechanisms that induce a strong innate immune response to the
virus following dermal infection. Here, we compare the ability of the innate
sensing molecule Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) and the signaling molecule MyD88 to 
influence the innate and adaptive immune response to VACV following systemic or
dermal infection.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02776-13 
PMCID: PMC3957935
PMID: 24403581  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Infect Dis. 2014 Jul 1;210(1):99-110. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jiu003. Epub 2014 Jan
7.

Specificity and 6-month durability of immune responses induced by DNA and
recombinant modified vaccinia Ankara vaccines expressing HIV-1 virus-like
particles.

Goepfert PA(1), Elizaga ML(2), Seaton K(3), Tomaras GD(3), Montefiori DC(3), Sato
A(2), Hural J(2), DeRosa SC(4), Kalams SA(5), McElrath MJ(4), Keefer MC(6), Baden
LR(7), Lama JR(8), Sanchez J(8), Mulligan MJ(9), Buchbinder SP(10), Hammer
SM(11), Koblin BA(12), Pensiero M(13), Butler C(13), Moss B(14), Robinson HL(15);
HVTN 205 Study Group; National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases HIV 
Vaccines Trials Network.

Collaborators: Donastorg Y, Qin L, Lawrence D, Cardinali M, Bae J, Holt R,
Redinger H, Johannessen J, Broder G, Moody-White J, McKay B, Calazans G, Bentley 
C, Kakinami L, Skibinski K, Estep S, Tseng J, Swenson M, Madenwald T, Overton ET,
Edupuganti S, Rouphael N, Whitaker J, Hay CM, Bunce CA, Gonzales P, Hurtado JC,
Dolin R, Mayer K, Walsh S, Johnson J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham.
(2)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center.
(3)Laboratory for AIDS Vaccine Research and Development, Department of Surgery,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(4)Vaccine and Infectious Disease Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.
(5)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, Tennessee.
(6)University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, Rochester.
(7)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(8)Asociacion Civil IMPACTA Salud y Educacion, Lima, Peru.
(9)Division of Infectious Diseases, Emory University, Atlanta.
(10)Bridge HIV, San Francisco Department of Public Health, California.
(11)Columbia University.
(12)New York Blood Center, New York, New York.
(13)Division of AIDS.
(14)Laboratory of Viral Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(15)GeoVax Inc., Smyrna, Georgia.

BACKGROUND: Clade B DNA and recombinant modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) vaccines
producing virus-like particles displaying trimeric membrane-bound envelope
glycoprotein (Env) were tested in a phase 2a trial in human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV)-uninfected adults for safety, immunogenicity, and 6-month durability 
of immune responses.
METHODS: A total of 299 individuals received 2 doses of JS7 DNA vaccine and 2
doses of MVA/HIV62B at 0, 2, 4, and 6 months, respectively (the DDMM regimen); 3 
doses of MVA/HIV62B at 0, 2, and 6 months (the MMM regimen); or placebo
injections.
RESULTS: At peak response, 93.2% of the DDMM group and 98.4% of the MMM group had
binding antibodies for Env. These binding antibodies were more frequent and of
higher magnitude for the transmembrane subunit (gp41) than the receptor-binding
subunit (gp120) of Env. For both regimens, response rates were higher for CD4(+) 
T cells (66.4% in the DDMM group and 43.1% in the MMM group) than for CD8(+) T
cells (21.8% in the DDMM group and 14.9% in the MMM group). Responding CD4(+) and
CD8(+) T cells were biased toward Gag, and >70% produced 2 or 3 of the 4
cytokines evaluated (ie, interferon γ, interleukin 2, tumor necrosis factor α,
and granzyme B). Six months after vaccination, the magnitudes of antibodies and
T-cell responses had decreased by <3-fold.
CONCLUSIONS: DDMM and MMM vaccinations with virus-like particle-expressing
immunogens elicited durable antibody and T-cell responses.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the
Infectious Diseases Society of America. All rights reserved. For Permissions,
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jiu003 
PMCID: PMC4072895
PMID: 24403557  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Immunol. 2014 Feb 15;192(4):1433-9. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302139. Epub 2014
Jan 8.

Autoimmune vitiligo does not require the ongoing priming of naive CD8 T cells for
disease progression or associated protection against melanoma.

Byrne KT(1), Zhang P, Steinberg SM, Turk MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Geisel School of Medicine at
Dartmouth, Hanover, NH 03755.

Vitiligo is a CD8 T cell-mediated autoimmune disease that has been shown to
promote the longevity of memory T cell responses to melanoma. However, mechanisms
whereby melanocyte/melanoma Ag-specific T cell responses are perpetuated in the
context of vitiligo are not well understood. These studies investigate the
possible phenomenon of naive T cell priming in hosts with melanoma-initiated,
self-perpetuating, autoimmune vitiligo. Using naive pmel (gp10025-33-specific)
transgenic CD8 T cells, we demonstrate that autoimmune melanocyte destruction
induces naive T cell proliferation in skin-draining lymph nodes, in an
Ag-dependent fashion. These pmel T cells upregulate expression of CD44,
P-selectin ligand, and granzyme B. However, they do not downregulate CD62L, nor
do they acquire the ability to produce IFN-γ, indicating a lack of functional
priming. Accordingly, adult thymectomized mice exhibit no reduction in the
severity or kinetics of depigmentation or long-lived protection against melanoma,
indicating that the continual priming of naive T cells is not required for
vitiligo or its associated antitumor immunity. Despite this, depletion of CD4 T
cells during the course of vitiligo rescues the priming of naive pmel T cells
that are capable of producing IFN-γ and persisting as memory, suggesting an
ongoing and dominant mechanism of suppression by regulatory T cells. This work
reveals the complex regulation of self-reactive CD8 T cells in vitiligo and
demonstrates the overall poorly immunogenic nature of this autoimmune disease
setting.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1302139 
PMCID: PMC4077353
PMID: 24403535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Cardiovasc Res. 2014 Apr 1;102(1):107-17. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvu002. Epub 2014 Jan 
8.

Regression of atherosclerosis with anti-CD3 antibody via augmenting a regulatory 
T-cell response in mice.

Kita T(1), Yamashita T, Sasaki N, Kasahara K, Sasaki Y, Yodoi K, Takeda M,
Nakajima K, Hirata K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe
University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-1, Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe
650-0017, Japan.

Comment in
    Cardiovasc Res. 2014 Apr 1;102(1):3-5.

AIMS: Although recent animal studies have investigated the cellular and molecular
mechanisms underlying the process of atherosclerosis regression, it remains
unknown whether adaptive immune responses including T cells are involved in this 
process. We investigated the role of T cells in atherosclerosis regression.
METHODS AND RESULTS: LDL receptor-deficient mice were fed a high-cholesterol diet
for 8 weeks to form atherosclerotic lesions and were then changed to a standard
diet, and atherosclerosis was assessed 4 weeks later. Just before changing the
diet, the mice received an iv injection of anti-CD3 antibody (CD3-Ab) or control 
immunoglobulin G for 5 consecutive days. CD3-Ab treatment regressed
atherosclerosis and decreased the accumulation of macrophages and CD4(+) T cells 
in the plaques. CD3-Ab treatment also dramatically reduced CD4(+) T cells and
increased the proportion of regulatory T cells (Tregs). Depletion of Tregs by
anti-CD25 antibody injection abolished the regression of atherosclerosis seen in 
CD3-Ab-treated mice, indicating the essential role for Tregs in this process.
CONCLUSION: CD3-Ab treatment induced rapid regression of established
atherosclerosis via reducing CD4(+) T cells and increasing the proportion of
Tregs. These findings suggest that therapeutic intervention for T-cell-mediated
immune responses may represent a novel strategy to induce atherosclerosis
regression in combination with lipid-lowering therapy.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvu002 
PMID: 24403315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):174-9. doi: 10.1038/nature12826.

Elephant shark genome provides unique insights into gnathostome evolution.

Venkatesh B(1), Lee AP(2), Ravi V(2), Maurya AK(3), Lian MM(2), Swann JB(4), Ohta
Y(5), Flajnik MF(5), Sutoh Y(6), Kasahara M(6), Hoon S(7), Gangu V(7), Roy SW(8),
Irimia M(9), Korzh V(10), Kondrychyn I(10), Lim ZW(2), Tay BH(2), Tohari S(2),
Kong KW(7), Ho S(7), Lorente-Galdos B(11), Quilez J(11), Marques-Bonet T(11),
Raney BJ(12), Ingham PW(3), Tay A(2), Hillier LW(13), Minx P(13), Boehm T(4),
Wilson RK(13), Brenner S(2), Warren WC(13).

Author information: 
(1)1] Comparative Genomics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,
A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673 [2] Department of Paediatrics, Yong Loo Lin
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore 119228.
(2)Comparative Genomics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology,
A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(3)Developmental and Biomedical Genetics Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and
Cell Biology, A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(4)Department of Developmental Immunology, Max-Planck-Institute of Immunobiology 
and Epigenetics, Stuebeweg 51, 79108 Freiburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Maryland, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21201, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.
(7)Molecular Engineering Laboratory, Biomedical Sciences Institutes, A*STAR,
Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(8)Department of Biology, San Francisco State University, San Francisco,
California 94132, USA.
(9)Banting and Best Department of Medical Research and Donnelly Centre,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3E1, Canada.
(10)Fish Developmental Biology Laboratory, Institute of Molecular and Cell
Biology, A*STAR, Biopolis, Singapore 138673.
(11)1] Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC), PRBB, 08003 Barcelona, Spain
[2] Institució Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona,
Catalonia, Spain.
(12)Center for Biomolecular Science and Engineering, School of Engineering,
University of California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California 95064, USA.
(13)The Genome Institute at Washington University, St Louis, Missouri 63108, USA.

Erratum in
    Nature. 2014 Sep 25;513(7519):574.

Comment in
    Evol Dev. 2014 May;16(3):123-4.
    Evol Dev. 2014 May;16(3):125-6.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):E7-9.
    Nature. 2014 Jul 10;511(7508):E9-10.

The emergence of jawed vertebrates (gnathostomes) from jawless vertebrates was
accompanied by major morphological and physiological innovations, such as hinged 
jaws, paired fins and immunoglobulin-based adaptive immunity. Gnathostomes
subsequently diverged into two groups, the cartilaginous fishes and the bony
vertebrates. Here we report the whole-genome analysis of a cartilaginous fish,
the elephant shark (Callorhinchus milii). We find that the C. milii genome is the
slowest evolving of all known vertebrates, including the 'living fossil'
coelacanth, and features extensive synteny conservation with tetrapod genomes,
making it a good model for comparative analyses of gnathostome genomes. Our
functional studies suggest that the lack of genes encoding secreted
calcium-binding phosphoproteins in cartilaginous fishes explains the absence of
bone in their endoskeleton. Furthermore, the adaptive immune system of
cartilaginous fishes is unusual: it lacks the canonical CD4 co-receptor and most 
transcription factors, cytokines and cytokine receptors related to the CD4
lineage, despite the presence of polymorphic major histocompatibility complex
class II molecules. It thus presents a new model for understanding the origin of 
adaptive immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12826 
PMCID: PMC3964593
PMID: 24402279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Genes Immun. 2014 Mar;15(2):115-25. doi: 10.1038/gene.2013.69. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Comprehensive analysis of miRNA expression in T-cell subsets of rheumatoid
arthritis patients reveals defined signatures of naive and memory Tregs.

Smigielska-Czepiel K(1), van den Berg A(2), Jellema P(2), van der Lei RJ(2),
Bijzet J(3), Kluiver J(2), Boots AM(4), Brouwer E(4), Kroesen BJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands [2] Groningen
Research Initiative on Healthy Ageing and Immune Longevity (GRAIL), University of
Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)1] Groningen Research Initiative on Healthy Ageing and Immune Longevity
(GRAIL), University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen,
The Netherlands [2] Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology,
University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The
Netherlands.
(5)1] Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, University of Groningen,
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands [2] Groningen
Research Initiative on Healthy Ageing and Immune Longevity (GRAIL), University of
Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands [3]
Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Groningen, University Medical
Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Disturbed expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulatory T cells (Tregs) leads to
development of autoimmunity in experimental mouse models. However, the miRNA
expression signature characterizing Tregs of autoimmune diseases, such as
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has not been determined yet. In this study, we have
used a microarray approach to comprehensively analyze miRNA expression signatures
of both naive Tregs (CD4+CD45RO-CD25++) and memory Tregs (CD4+CD45RO+CD25+++), as
well as conventional naive (CD4+CD45RO-CD25-) and memory (CD4+CD45RO+CD25-) T
cells (Tconvs) derived from peripheral blood of RA patients and matched healthy
controls. Differential expression of selected miRNAs was validated by
TaqMan-based quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. We found a positive
correlation between increased expression of miR-451 in T cells of RA patients and
disease activity score (DAS28), erythrocyte sedimentation rate levels and serum
levels of interleukin-6. Moreover, we found characteristic, disease- and
treatment-independent, global miRNA expression signatures defining naive Tregs,
memory Tregs, naive Tconvs and memory Tconvs. The analysis allowed us to define
miRNAs characteristic for a general naive phenotype (for example, miR-92a) and a 
general memory phenotype (for example, miR-21, miR-155). Importantly, the
analysis allowed us to define miRNAs that are specifically expressed in both
naive and memory Tregs, defining as such miRNA signature characterizing the Treg 
phenotype (that is, miR-146a, miR-3162, miR-1202, miR-1246 and miR-4281).

DOI: 10.1038/gene.2013.69 
PMCID: PMC3959220
PMID: 24401767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Trop Pediatr. 2014 Jun;60(3):198-202. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmt107. Epub 2014 Jan
8.

Co-morbidities in children presenting with chronic suppurative otitis media--a
South African study.

Hallbauer UM(1), Atkins MD(2), Tiedt NJ(3), Butler IR(3), Pieters M(4), Elliott
E(4), Joubert G(5), Seedat RY(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of the Free State,
Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa hallbute@ufs.ac.za.
(2)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of the Free State,
Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University of the Free State, Bloemfontein 
9300, South Africa.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology, NHLS and University of the Free State.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, University of the Free State, Bloemfontein 9300, 
South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) is common among children in
southern Africa. Managing associated co-morbidities may result in earlier disease
resolution.
METHODS: Children <13 years of age with otorrhoea lasting >4 weeks were recruited
to the study. Each child underwent a full clinical examination, a blood count, an
HIV test and CD4 cell count, if found to be infected.
RESULTS: The study included 86 children, and the median age was 4.6 years. HIV
infection was present in 45 of 83 children (54.2%), of which 23 (51.1%) were
receiving antiretroviral treatment at the time of presentation. Underweight was
present in 22 of 85 (25.9%) children and in 17 of the 45 (37.8%) HIV-infected
children. One or more clinical signs (not aural-related) were found in 46 of 86
(53.4%) children. Cholesteatoma was found in 23 of 113 (20.4%) ears, and 9 of 86 
(10.5%) children had serious associated aural or intracranial complications.
CONCLUSIONS: A high percentage of children with CSOM have associated pathology
that needs to be diagnosed to optimally manage CSOM.

© The Author [2014]. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmt107 
PMID: 24401753  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Acta Neuropathol Commun. 2014 Jan 8;2:5. doi: 10.1186/2051-5960-2-5.

A new animal model of spontaneous autoimmune peripheral polyneuropathy:
implications for Guillain-Barré syndrome.

Yang M, Rainone A, Shi XQ, Fournier S(1), Zhang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A 
2B4, Canada. Sylvie.Fournier@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: Spontaneous autoimmune peripheral neuropathy including Guillain-Barré
Syndrome (GBS) represents as one of the serious emergencies in neurology.
Although pathological changes have been well documented, molecular and cellular
mechanisms of GBS are still under-explored, partially due to short of appropriate
animal models. The field lacks of spontaneous and translatable models for
mechanistic investigations. As GBS is preceded often by viral or bacterial
infection, a condition can enhance co-stimulatory activity; we sought to
investigate the critical role of T cell co-stimulation in this autoimmune
disease.
RESULTS: Our previous study reported that transgene-derived constitutive
expression of co-stimulator B7.2 on antigen presenting cells of the nervous
tissues drove spontaneous neurological disorders. Depletion of CD4+ T cells in
L31 mice accelerated the onset and increased the prevalence of the disease. In
the current study, we further demonstrated that L31/CD4-/- mice exhibited both
motor and sensory deficits, including weakness and paresis of limbs, numbness to 
mechanical stimuli and hypersensitivity to thermal stimulation. Pathological
changes were characterized by massive infiltration of macrophages and CD8+ T
cells, demyelination and axonal damage in peripheral nerves, while changes in
spinal cords could be secondary to the PNS damage. In symptomatic L31/CD4-/-
mice, the disruption of the blood neural barriers was observed mainly in
peripheral nerves. Interestingly, the infiltration of immune cells was initiated 
in pre-symptomatic L31/CD4-/- mice, prior to the disease onset, in the DRG and
spinal roots where the blood nerve barrier is virtually absent.
CONCLUSIONS: L31/CD4-/- mice mimic most parts of clinical and pathological
signatures of GBS in human; thus providing an unconventional opportunity to
experimentally explore the critical events that lead to spontaneous, autoimmune
demyelinating disease of the peripheral nervous system.

DOI: 10.1186/2051-5960-2-5 
PMCID: PMC3895684
PMID: 24401681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Virulence. 2014 Feb 15;5(2):311-20. doi: 10.4161/viru.27605. Epub 2014 Jan 8.

TTSS2-deficient hha mutant of Salmonella Typhimurium exhibits significant
systemic attenuation in immunocompromised hosts.

Vishwakarma V(1), Pati NB(1), Ray S(1), Das S(1), Suar M(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biotechnology; KIIT University; Bhubaneswar, India.

Non-typhoidal Salmonella (NTS) infections are emerging as leading problem
worldwide and the variations in host immune status append to the concern of NTS. 
Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium is one of the causative agents of NTS
infections and has been extensively studied. The inactivation of Salmonella
pathogenicity island 2 (SPI2) encoded type-III secretion system 2 (TTSS2) has
been reported rendering the strain incapable for systemic dissemination to host
sites and has also been proposed as live-attenuated vaccine. However, infections 
from TTSS2-deficient Salmonella have also been reported. In this study, mutant
strain MT15 was developed by inactivation of the hemolysin expression modulating 
protein (hha) in TTSS2-deficient S. Typhimurium background. The MT15 strain
showed significant level of attenuation in immune-deprived murine colitis model
when tested in iNos(-/-), IL10(-/-), and CD40L(-/-) mice groups in C57BL/6
background. Further, the mutation in hha does not implicate any defect in
bacterial colonization to the host gut. The long-term infection of developed
mutant strain conferred protective immune responses to suitably immunized
streptomycin pre-treated C57BL/6 mice. The immunization enhanced the CD4(+) and
CD8(+) cell types involved in bacterial clearance. The serum IgG and luminal
secretory IgA (sIgA) was also found to be elevated after the due course of
infection. Additionally, the immunized C57BL/6 mice were protected from the
subsequent lethal infection of Salmonella Typhimurium. Collectively, these
findings implicate the involvement of hemolysin expression modulating protein
(Hha) in establishment of bacterial infection. In light of the observed
attenuation of the developed mutant strain, this study proposes the possible
significance of SPI2-deficient hha mutant as an alternative live-attenuated
vaccine strain for use against lethal Salmonella infections.

DOI: 10.4161/viru.27605 
PMCID: PMC3956507
PMID: 24401482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Leukoc Biol. 2014 Jul;96(1):7-16. doi: 10.1189/jlb.0913514. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Activation of NK cells is associated with HIV-1 disease progression.

Kuri-Cervantes L(1), de Oca GS(1), Avila-Ríos S(1), Hernández-Juan R(1),
Reyes-Terán G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación en Enfermedades Infecciosas, Instituto Nacional de
Enfermedades Respiratorias, Mexico City, Mexico.
(2)Centro de Investigación en Enfermedades Infecciosas, Instituto Nacional de
Enfermedades Respiratorias, Mexico City, Mexico reyesteran@cieni.org.mx.

Comment in
    J Leukoc Biol. 2014 Jul;96(1):1-3.

The main predictor of HIV-1 disease progression is CD8(+) T cell activation,
characterized by elevated expression of CD38 and HLA-DR. NK cells are also
activated in viremic HIV-1-infected individuals. However, the relationship
between NK cell activation and HIV-1 disease progression remains undefined. We
characterized NK cell activation and its association with disease progression in 
treatment of naive HIV-1-infected individuals, who naturally maintained
low/undetectable viremia (elite and viremic controllers), compared with
progressors and AIDS subjects, and treated individuals. Our results show that
CD38 expression on NK cells, predominantly in the cytotoxic CD56(dim)CD16(+)
subset, is associated with HIV-1 disease progression (CD4(+) T cell count and
pVL), T cell activation (percentage of CD38(+)HLA-DR(+) T cells), sCD14,
inflammation, and innate immune activation. Moreover, NK cell activation is
increased in HIV-1-infected subjects progressing to AIDS but not in elite and
viremic controllers. ART partially reduces the proportion of activated NK cells. 
Furthermore, our results show that individuals, who naturally control viremia,
maintain low levels of innate immune activation similar to those of uninfected
controls.

© 2014 Society for Leukocyte Biology.

DOI: 10.1189/jlb.0913514 
PMID: 24399837  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Metab Brain Dis. 2014 Jun;29(2):269-279. doi: 10.1007/s11011-013-9476-1. Epub
2014 Jan 9.

Predictors of neurocognitive outcomes on antiretroviral therapy after
cryptococcal meningitis: a prospective cohort study.

Carlson RD(#)(1), Rolfes MA(#)(1), Birkenkamp KE(1), Nakasujja N(2)(3)(4),
Rajasingham R(1)(2), Meya DB(1)(2)(3), Boulware DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and International Medicine, Department of
Medicine, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
(2)Infectious Disease Institute, School of Medicine, Department of Medicine,
Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Makerere University College of Health Sciences, School of Medicine, Department
of Medicine, Kampala, Uganda.
(4)Makerere University College of Health Sciences, School of Medicine, Department
of Psychiatry, Kampala, Uganda.
(#)Contributed equally

Cryptococcal meningitis is the most common cause of adult meningitis in Africa,
yet neurocognitive outcomes are unknown. We investigated the incidence and
predictors of neurologic impairment among cryptococcal survivors. HIV-infected,
antiretroviral-naive Ugandans with cryptococcal meningitis underwent standardized
neuropsychological testing at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months. A quantitative
neurocognitive performance z-score (QNPZ) was calculated based on population
z-scores from HIV-negative Ugandans (n = 100). Comparison was made with an
HIV-infected, non-meningitis cohort (n = 110). Among 78 cryptococcal meningitis
survivors with median CD4 count of 13 cells/μL (interquartile range: 6-44),
decreased global cognitive function occurred through 12 months compared with the 
HIV-infected, non-cryptococcosis cohort (QNPZ-6 at 12 months, P = 0.036). Tests
of performance in eight cognitive domains was impaired 1 month after cryptococcal
diagnosis; however, cryptococcal meningitis survivors improved their global
neurocognitive function over 12 months with residual impairment (mean
z-scores < -1), only in domains of motor speed, gross motor and executive
function at 12 months. There was no evidence that neurocognitive outcome was
associated with initial demographics, HIV parameters, or meningitis severity.
Paradoxically, persons with sterile CSF cultures after 14 days of induction
amphotericin therapy had worse neurocognitive outcomes than those still
culture-positive at 14 days (P = 0.002). Cryptococcal meningitis survivors have
significant short-term neurocognitive impairment with marked improvement over the
first 12 months. Few characteristics related to severity of cryptococcosis,
including Cryptococcus burden, were associated with neurocognitive outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-013-9476-1 
PMCID: PMC4033836
PMID: 24399496  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Clin Transl Oncol. 2014 Sep;16(9):807-13. doi: 10.1007/s12094-013-1152-8. Epub
2014 Jan 8.

Cell origins and significance of IL-17 in malignant pleural effusion.

Gong Y(1), Chen SX, Gao BA, Yao RC, Guan L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The First College of Clinical Medical
Science, Yichang Central People's Hospital, China Three Gorges University, Yi
Ling Road 183#, Yi Chang, 443003, Hubei, People's Republic of China,
236766535@qq.com.

PURPOSE: T cells are dominant in the immune regulation of malignant pleural
effusion (MPE). However, it is unclear about the role of IL-17+ T cells,
particularly for IL-17+CD8+ Tc17 cells in antitumor immunity. This retrospective 
study is aimed at evaluating the prognostic significance of IL-17+ T cells in
patients with MPE.
METHODS: The frequency of IL-17+CD4+ Th17 and IL-17+CD8+ Tc17 cells in peripheral
blood (PB), pleural fluids (PF), and tumor tissues in 24 patients undergoing
thoracoscopy was determined by flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and ELISA.
The association among the different measures was analyzed by Spearman's
correlation tests.
RESULTS: The percentages of PF Th17 and Tc17 cells were significantly higher than
those in the PB of MPE patients and healthy controls (p < 0.01). Analysis of Th17
and Tc17 cells in the tumor tissues indicated that the percentages of Th17 and
Tc17 cells in the invading tumor edge were significantly higher than those in the
non-tumor tissues and intra-tumor regions (p < 0.05). More importantly, the
percentages of IL-17+ T cells were associated with prolonged survival of patients
with MPE.
CONCLUSIONS: Both Th17 and Tc17 cells were involved in the tumor immunity against
MPE. Increased frequency of Tc17 cells may serve as a biomarker for the prognosis
of patients with MPE.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-013-1152-8 
PMID: 24399072  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Gut. 2014 Oct;63(10):1578-86. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-306226. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Altered intestinal microbiota and blood T cell phenotype are shared by patients
with Crohn's disease and their unaffected siblings.

Hedin CR(1), McCarthy NE(2), Louis P(3), Farquharson FM(3), McCartney S(4),
Taylor K(5), Prescott NJ(5), Murrells T(6), Stagg AJ(7), Whelan K(8), Lindsay
JO(9).

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences Division, School of Medicine, King's College
London, London, UK Centre for Digestive Diseases, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary
University of London, London, UK.
(2)Centre for Digestive Diseases, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of
London, London, UK.
(3)Microbiology Group, Gut Health Theme, Rowett Institute of Nutrition and
Health, University of Aberdeen, Bucksburn, Aberdeen, UK.
(4)Department for Gastroenterology and Clinical Nutrition, University College
Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(5)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London, London,
UK.
(6)National Nursing Research Unit, Florence Nightingale School of Nursing and
Midwifery, King's College London, London, UK.
(7)Centre for Immunology and Infectious Disease, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary
University of London, London, UK.
(8)Diabetes and Nutritional Sciences Division, School of Medicine, King's College
London, London, UK.
(9)Centre for Digestive Diseases, Blizard Institute, Queen Mary University of
London, London, UK Gastroenterology Division, Barts Health NHS Trust, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Crohn's disease (CD) is associated with intestinal dysbiosis, altered 
blood T cell populations, elevated faecal calprotectin (FC) and increased
intestinal permeability (IP). CD-associated features present in siblings
(increased risk of CD) but not in healthy controls, provide insight into early CD
pathogenesis. We aimed to (1) Delineate the genetic, immune and microbiological
profile of patients with CD, their siblings and controls and (2) Determine which 
factors discriminate between groups.
DESIGN: Faecal microbiology was analysed by quantitative PCR targeting 16S
ribosomal RNA, FC by ELISA, blood T cell phenotype by flow cytometry and IP by
differential lactulose-rhamnose absorption in 22 patients with inactive CD, 21 of
their healthy siblings and 25 controls. Subject's genotype relative risk was
determined by Illumina Immuno BeadChip.
RESULTS: Strikingly, siblings shared aspects of intestinal dysbiosis with
patients with CD (lower concentrations of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (p=0.048),
Clostridia cluster IV (p=0.003) and Roseburia spp. (p=0.09) compared with
controls). As in CD, siblings demonstrated a predominance of memory T cells
(p=0.002) and elevated naïve CD4 T cell β7 integrin expression (p=0.01) compared 
with controls. FC was elevated (>50 μg/g) in 8/21 (38%) siblings compared with
2/25 (8%) controls (p=0.028); whereas IP did not differ between siblings and
controls. Discriminant function analysis determined that combinations of these
factors significantly discriminated between groups (χ(2)=80.4, df=20, p<0.001).
Siblings were separated from controls by immunological and microbiological
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Healthy siblings of patients with CD manifest immune and
microbiological abnormalities associated with CD distinct from their
genotype-related risk and provide an excellent model in which to investigate
early CD pathogenesis.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-306226 
PMID: 24398881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2014 Feb;143(3):435-46. doi: 10.1007/s10549-013-2829-y. 
Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Inhibition of FGFR signaling by PD173074 improves antitumor immunity and impairs 
breast cancer metastasis.

Ye T(1), Wei X, Yin T, Xia Y, Li D, Shao B, Song X, He S, Luo M, Gao X, He Z, Luo
C, Xiong Y, Wang N, Zeng J, Zhao L, Shen G, Xie Y, Yu L, Wei Y.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University,
No. 17, Section 3 Renmin South Road, Chengdu, 610041, China.

Aberrant fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and FGF receptor (FGFR) system have been 
associated with breast cancer. The objectives of our study were to investigate
the effects and mechanisms of FGFR inhibition on tumor growth and metastasis on
breast cancer. Our studies showed that the FGFR inhibitor PD173074 decreased the 
viability of several human breast cancer cells, as well as 4T1 murine mammary
tumor cells. Therefore, we chose 4T1 cells to study PD173074's antitumor
mechanism. Flow cytometry showed that PD173074 induced 4T1 cell apoptosis in a
concentration-dependent manner. Western blot demonstrated that PD173074-induced
apoptosis was correlated with the inhibition of Mcl-1 and survivin. Moreover,
PD173074 also significantly increased the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2. PD173074 could also
block 4T1 cell migration and invasion in vitro. In 4T1 tumor-bearing mice,
PD173074 significantly inhibited tumor growth without obvious side effects.
Meanwhile, PD173074 functionally reduced microvessel density and proliferation
index and induced tumor apoptosis. Importantly, we found that FGFR inhibition by 
PD173074 reduced myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in the blood, spleens
and tumors, accompanied by the increased infiltration of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T
cells in the spleens and tumors. Furthermore, PD173074 significantly inhibited
breast tumor metastasis to the lung of inoculated 4T1 breast cancer cells, which 
was accompanied by a reduction in MDSCs. Our findings suggested that FGFR
inhibition could delay breast tumor progression, impair lung metastasis and break
immunosuppression by effecting on tumor microenvironment, which may provide a
promising therapeutic approach for breast cancer patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-013-2829-y 
PMID: 24398778  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Blood. 2014 Mar 27;123(13):1989-99. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-10-535393. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Natural history of autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome associated with FAS
gene mutations.

Price S(1), Shaw PA, Seitz A, Joshi G, Davis J, Niemela JE, Perkins K, Hornung
RL, Folio L, Rosenberg PS, Puck JM, Hsu AP, Lo B, Pittaluga S, Jaffe ES, Fleisher
TA, Rao VK, Lenardo MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Development Section, Laboratory of Immunology, Division of
Intramural Research, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD;

Comment in
    Blood. 2014 Mar 27;123(13):1978.

Autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome (ALPS) presents in childhood with
nonmalignant lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly associated with a characteristic
expansion of mature CD4 and CD8 negative or double negative T-cell receptor αβ(+)
T lymphocytes. Patients often present with chronic multilineage cytopenias due to
autoimmune peripheral destruction and/or splenic sequestration of blood cells and
have an increased risk of B-cell lymphoma. Deleterious heterozygous mutations in 
the FAS gene are the most common cause of this condition, which is termed
ALPS-FAS. We report the natural history and pathophysiology of 150 ALPS-FAS
patients and 63 healthy mutation-positive relatives evaluated in our institution 
over the last 2 decades. Our principal findings are that FAS mutations have a
clinical penetrance of <60%, elevated serum vitamin B12 is a reliable and
accurate biomarker of ALPS-FAS, and the major causes of morbidity and mortality
in these patients are the overwhelming postsplenectomy sepsis and development of 
lymphoma. With longer follow-up, we observed a significantly greater relative
risk of lymphoma than previously reported. Avoiding splenectomy while controlling
hypersplenism by using corticosteroid-sparing treatments improves the outcome in 
ALPS-FAS patients. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as
#NCT00001350.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2013-10-535393 
PMCID: PMC3968385
PMID: 24398331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Autoimmun. 2014 Jun;51:44-50. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.012. Epub 2014 Jan 4.

The role of M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptor reactive T cells in Sjögren's
syndrome: a critical review.

Sumida T(1), Tsuboi H(2), Iizuka M(2), Hirota T(2), Asashima H(2), Matsumoto
I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai,
Tsukuba-City, Ibaraki 305-8575, Japan. Electronic address:
tsumida@md.tsukuba.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai,
Tsukuba-City, Ibaraki 305-8575, Japan.

CD4+ T cells constitute the majority of infiltrating cells in salivary glands and
lachrymal glands of patients with Sjögren's syndrome (SS). The pathophysiology of
SS involves T cell recognition of antigens through the T cell antigen receptor,
which triggers cytokine production and chronic inflammation. The M3 muscarinic
acetylcholine receptor (M3R) molecule is expressed in exocrine glands, such as
salivary glands and lachrymal glands, and plays an important role in exocrine
secretion. Previous studies indicated the presence of M3R reactive T cells in
peripheral blood of 40% of patients with SS and autoantibodies against M3R in
sera of 9-100% of the same patients. Thus, M3R is considered a candidate receptor
for autoantigen recognition by T and B cells. The relationship between B cell
epitopes and the function of anti-M3R antibodies has been reported, suggesting
the pathogenic role of anti-M3R antibodies in xerostomia commonly seen in SS
patients. We generated new experimental mouse model, M3R-induced sialadenitis
(MIS), using Rag1(-/-) mice inoculated with splenocytes from M3R(-/-) mice
immunized with M3R synthetic peptides. Mice with MIS developed severe SS-like
sialadenitis. Cell transfer experiments using M3R(-/-)xIFNγ(-/-) mice and
M3R(-/-)xIL-17(-/-) mice showed that IFNγ and IL-17 are key cytokines in the
pathogenesis of sialadenitis. These findings indicate the crucial roles of
M3R-reactive Th1 and Th17 cells in autoimmune sialadenitis, and suggest that
these cells, in addition to anti-M3R antibodies, are potential targets in new
treatments for SS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.012 
PMID: 24397962  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Autoimmun. 2014 Aug;52:74-89. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.013. Epub 2014 Jan 4.

Innate immunity in myasthenia gravis thymus: pathogenic effects of Toll-like
receptor 4 signaling on autoimmunity.

Cordiglieri C(1), Marolda R(2), Franzi S(3), Cappelletti C(4), Giardina C(5),
Motta T(6), Baggi F(7), Bernasconi P(8), Mantegazza R(9), Cavalcante P(10).

Author information: 
(1)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: chiara.cordiglieri@istituto-besta.it.
(2)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: roberta.marolda@istituto-besta.it.
(3)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: sara.franzi@istituto-besta.it.
(4)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: cristina.cappelletti@istituto-besta.it.
(5)Department of Pathological Anatomy, Azienda Ospedaliera Bolognini Seriate, Via
Paterno 21, 24068 Seriate Bergamo, Italy. Electronic address:
anatomiapat.seriate@bolognini.bg.it.
(6)Department of Pathological Anatomy, Azienda Ospedaliera Bolognini Seriate, Via
Paterno 21, 24068 Seriate Bergamo, Italy. Electronic address:
teresio.motta@bolognini.bg.it.
(7)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: baggi@istituto-besta.it.
(8)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: pbernasconi@istituto-besta.it.
(9)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11, 20133
Milan, Italy. Electronic address: rmantegazza@istituto-besta.it.
(10)Neurology IV Unit, Neurological Institute 'Carlo Besta', Via Celoria 11,
20133 Milan, Italy. Electronic address: pcavalcante@istituto-besta.it.

The thymus is the main site of immune sensitization to AChR in myasthenia gravis 
(MG). In our previous studies we demonstrated that Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 is 
over-expressed in MG thymuses, suggesting its involvement in altering the thymic 
microenvironment and favoring autosensitization and autoimmunity maintenance
processes, via an effect on local chemokine/cytokine network. Here, we
investigated whether TLR4 signaling may favor abnormal cell recruitment in MG
thymus via CCL17 and CCL22, two chemokines known to dictate immune cell
trafficking in inflamed organs by binding CCR4. We also investigated whether TLR4
activation may contribute to immunodysregulation, via the production of
Th17-related cytokines, known to alter effector T cell (Teff)/regulatory T cell
(Treg) balance. We found that CCL17, CCL22 and CCR4 were expressed at higher
levels in MG compared to normal thymuses. The two chemokines were mainly detected
around medullary Hassall's corpuscles (HCs), co-localizing with TLR4(+) thymic
epithelial cells (TECs) and CCR4(+) dendritic cells (DCs), that were present in
higher number in MG thymuses compared to controls. TLR4 stimulation in MG TECs
increased CCL17 and CCL22 expression and induced the production of Th17-related
cytokines. Then, to study the effect of TLR4-stimulated TECs on immune cell
interactions and Teff activation, we generated an in-vitro imaging model by
co-culturing CD4(+) Th1/Th17 AChR-specific T cells, naïve CD4(+)CD25(+) Tregs,
DCs and TECs from Lewis rats. We observed that TLR4 stimulation led to a more
pronounced Teff activatory status, suggesting that TLR4 signaling in MG thymic
milieu may affect cell-to-cell interactions, favoring autoreactive T-cell
activation. Altogether our findings suggest a role for TLR4 signaling in driving 
DC recruitment in MG thymus via CCL17 and CCL22, and in generating an
inflammatory response that might compromise Treg function, favoring autoreactive 
T-cell pathogenic responses.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.12.013 
PMID: 24397961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Exp Mol Pathol. 2014 Apr;96(2):139-48. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2013.12.010. Epub
2014 Jan 5.

SIRT1 is decreased during relapses in patients with multiple sclerosis.

Tegla CA(1), Azimzadeh P(2), Andrian-Albescu M(2), Martin A(2), Cudrici CD(2),
Trippe R 3rd(2), Sugarman A(2), Chen H(3), Boodhoo D(2), Vlaicu SI(2), Royal W
3rd(4), Bever C(5), Rus V(6), Rus H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, Veterans Administration Maryland Health Care System,
Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Maryland, School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology, University of Maryland, School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Maryland, School
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Maryland, School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA; Veterans Administration Multiple Sclerosis Center of
Excellence, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Neurology, University of Maryland, School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA; Research Service, Veterans Administration Maryland Health
Care System, Baltimore, MD, USA; Veterans Administration Multiple Sclerosis
Center of Excellence, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology,
University of Maryland, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(7)Department of Neurology, University of Maryland, School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA; Research Service, Veterans Administration Maryland Health
Care System, Baltimore, MD, USA; Veterans Administration Multiple Sclerosis
Center of Excellence, Baltimore, MD, USA. Electronic address: hrus@umaryland.edu.

SIRT1 is a member of the histone deacetylase (HDAC) class III family of proteins 
and is an NAD-dependent histone and protein deacetylase. SIRT1 can induce
chromatin silencing through the deacetylation of histones and can modulate cell
survival by regulating the transcriptional activities. We investigated the
expression of SIRT1 in multiple sclerosis (MS) brains and in peripheral blood
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from patients with relapsing-remitting
multiple sclerosis. We found that SIRT1 was expressed by a significant number of 
cells in both acute and chronic active lesions. We also found that CD4(+),
CD68(+), oligodendrocytes (OLG), and glial fibrillar acidic protein (GFAP)(+)
cells in MS plaques co-localized with SIRT1. Our results show a statistically
significant decrease in SIRT1 mRNA and protein expression in PBMCs during
relapses when compared to the levels in controls and stable MS patients. On the
other hand, HDAC3 expression was not significantly changed during relapses in MS 
patients. SIRT1 expression correlated with that of histone H3 lysine 9
acetylation (H3K9ac) and methylation (H3K9me2). SIRT1 mRNA expression was
significantly reduced after RGC-32 silencing, indicating a role for RGC-32 in the
regulation of SIRT1 expression. Furthermore, we investigated the role of SIRT1 in
the expression of FasL and found a significant increase in FasL expression and
apoptosis after inhibition of SIRT1 expression. Our data suggest that SIRT1 may
represent a biomarker of relapses and a potential new target for therapeutic
intervention in MS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2013.12.010 
PMID: 24397908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Vaccine. 2014 Feb 12;32(8):957-64. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.12.042. Epub 2014 
Jan 5.

Production of NY-ESO-1 peptide/DRB1*08:03 tetramers and ex vivo detection of CD4 
T-cell responses in vaccinated cancer patients.

Mizote Y(1), Uenaka A(2), Isobe M(3), Wada H(4), Kakimi K(5), Saika T(6), Kita
S(7), Koide Y(7), Oka M(3), Nakayama E(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan; Department of Respiratory 
Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Health and Welfare, Kawasaki University of Medical Welfare,
Kurashiki 701-0193, Okayama, Japan.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka,
Japan.
(5)Department of Immunotherapeutics, University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Urology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine,
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.
(7)Medical & Biological Laboratories, Nagano, Japan.
(8)Faculty of Health and Welfare, Kawasaki University of Medical Welfare,
Kurashiki 701-0193, Okayama, Japan. Electronic address:
nakayama@mw.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.

We established CD4 T-cell clones, Mz-1B7, and Ue-21, which recognized the
NY-ESO-1 121-138 peptide from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of an
esophageal cancer patient, E-2, immunized with an NY-ESO-1 protein and determined
the NY-ESO-1 minimal epitopes. Minimal peptides recognized by Mz-1B7 and Ue-21
were NY-ESO-1 125-134 and 124-134, respectively, both in restriction to
DRB1*08:03. Using a longer peptide, 122-135, and five other related peptides,
including either of the minimal epitopes recognized by the CD4 T-cell clones, we 
investigated the free peptide/DR recognition on autologous EBV-B cells as APC and
peptide/DR tetramer binding. The results showed a discrepancy between them. The
tetramers with several peptides recognized by either Mz-1B7 or the Ue-21 CD4
T-cell clone did not bind to the respective clone. On the other hand, unexpected 
binding of the tetramer with the peptide not recognized by CD4 T-cells was
observed. The clone Mz-1B7 did not recognize the free peptide 122-135 on APC, but
the peptide 122-135/DRB1*08:03 tetramer bound to the TCR on those cells. The
failure of tetramer production and the unexpected tetramer binding could be due
to a subtly modified structure of the peptide/DR tetramer from the structure of
the free peptide/DR molecule. We also demonstrated that the NY-ESO-1
123-135/DRB1*08:03 tetramer detected ex vivo CD4 T-cell responses in PBMCs from
patients after NY-ESO-1 vaccination in immunomonitoring.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.12.042 
PMID: 24397899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2014 Jan 8;14:7. doi: 10.1186/1471-2393-14-7.

Correlates and outcomes of preterm birth, low birth weight, and small for
gestational age in HIV-exposed uninfected infants.

Slyker JA(1), Patterson J, Ambler G, Richardson BA, Maleche-Obimbo E, Bosire R,
Mbori-Ngacha D, Farquhar C, John-Stewart G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Global Health, University of Washington, Harborview Medical
Center, 325 9th Ave, Box 359931, Seattle, WA 98104, USA. jslyker@uw.edu.

BACKGROUND: Preterm birth (PTB), low birth weight (LBW) and small for gestational
age (SGA) contribute to neonatal mortality. Maternal HIV-1 infection has been
associated with an increased risk of PTB, but mechanisms underlying this
association are undefined. We describe correlates and outcomes of PTB, LBW, and
SGA in HIV-exposed uninfected infants.
METHODS: This was a retrospective analysis of cohort study. Between 1999-2002,
pregnant, HIV-infected women were enrolled into an HIV-1 transmission study.
Logistic regression was used to identify correlates of PTB, LBW and SGA in
HIV-negative, spontaneous singleton deliveries. Associations between birth
outcomes and mortality were measured using survival analyses.
RESULTS: In multivariable models, maternal plasma (OR = 2.1, 95% CI = 1.1-3.8)
and cervical HIV-1 RNA levels (OR = 1.6, 95% CI = 1.1-2.4), and CD4 < 15% (OR =
2.4, 95% CI = 1.0-5.6) were associated with increased odds of PTB. Abnormal
vaginal discharge and cervical polymorphonuclear leukocytes were also associated 
with PTB. Cervical HIV-1 RNA level (OR = 2.4, 95% CI = 1.5-6.7) was associated
with an increased odds of LBW, while increasing parity (OR = 0.46, 95% CI =
0.24-0.88) was associated with reduced odds. Higher maternal body mass index (OR 
= 0.75, 95% CI = 0.61-0.92) was associated with a reduced odds of SGA, while
bacterial vaginosis was associated with >3-fold increased odds (OR = 3.2, 95% CI 
= 1.4-7.4). PTB, LBW, and SGA were each associated with a >6-fold increased risk 
of neonatal death, and a >2-fold increased rate of infant mortality within the
first year.
CONCLUSIONS: Maternal plasma and cervical HIV-1 RNA load, and genital infections 
may be important risk factors for PTB in HIV-exposed uninfected infants. PTB,
LBW, and SGA are associated with increased neonatal and infant mortality in
HIV-exposed uninfected infants.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2393-14-7 
PMCID: PMC3897882
PMID: 24397463  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Mol Cell Biol. 2014 Mar;34(6):1054-65. doi: 10.1128/MCB.01161-13. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

IκB kinase ε targets interferon regulatory factor 1 in activated T lymphocytes.

Sgarbanti M(1), Marsili G, Remoli AL, Stellacci E, Mai A, Rotili D, Perrotti E,
Acchioni C, Orsatti R, Iraci N, Ferrari M, Borsetti A, Hiscott J, Battistini A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious, Parasitic and Immune-Mediated Diseases, Istituto
Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy.

IκB kinase ε (IKK-ε) has an essential role as a regulator of innate immunity,
functioning downstream of pattern recognition receptors to modulate NF-κB and
interferon (IFN) signaling. In the present study, we investigated IKK-ε
activation following T cell receptor (TCR)/CD28 stimulation of primary CD4(+) T
cells and its role in the stimulation of a type I IFN response. IKK-ε was
activated following TCR/CD28 stimulation of primary CD4(+) T cells; however, in T
cells treated with poly(I·C), TCR/CD28 costimulation blocked induction of IFN-β
transcription. We demonstrated that IKK-ε phosphorylated the transcription factor
IFN regulatory factor 1 (IRF-1) at amino acid (aa) 215/219/221 in primary CD4(+) 
T cells and blocked its transcriptional activity. At the mechanistic level, IRF-1
phosphorylation impaired the physical interaction between IRF-1 and the NF-κB
RelA subunit and interfered with PCAF-mediated acetylation of NF-κB RelA. These
results demonstrate that TCR/CD28 stimulation of primary T cells stimulates IKK-ε
activation, which in turn contributes to suppression of IFN-β production.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.01161-13 
PMCID: PMC3958032
PMID: 24396068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Exp Med. 2014 Jan 13;211(1):89-104. doi: 10.1084/jem.20130301. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Pro-inflammatory human Th17 cells selectively express P-glycoprotein and are
refractory to glucocorticoids.

Ramesh R(1), Kozhaya L, McKevitt K, Djuretic IM, Carlson TJ, Quintero MA,
McCauley JL, Abreu MT, Unutmaz D, Sundrud MS.

Author information: 
(1)Tempero Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 200 Technology Square, Suite 602, Cambridge, MA
02139.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Feb;13(2):103.
    Nat Rev Immunol. 2014 Feb;14(2):64-5.

IL-17A-expressing CD4(+) T cells (Th17 cells) are generally regarded as key
effectors of autoimmune inflammation. However, not all Th17 cells are
pro-inflammatory. Pathogenic Th17 cells that induce autoimmunity in mice are
distinguished from nonpathogenic Th17 cells by a unique transcriptional
signature, including high Il23r expression, and these cells require Il23r for
their inflammatory function. In contrast, defining features of human
pro-inflammatory Th17 cells are unknown. We show that pro-inflammatory human Th17
cells are restricted to a subset of CCR6(+)CXCR3(hi)CCR4(lo)CCR10(-)CD161(+)
cells that transiently express c-Kit and stably express P-glycoprotein
(P-gp)/multi-drug resistance type 1 (MDR1). In contrast to MDR1(-) Th1 or Th17
cells, MDR1(+) Th17 cells produce both Th17 (IL-17A, IL-17F, and IL-22) and Th1
(IFN-γ) cytokines upon TCR stimulation and do not express IL-10 or other
anti-inflammatory molecules. These cells also display a transcriptional signature
akin to pathogenic mouse Th17 cells and show heightened functional responses to
IL-23 stimulation. In vivo, MDR1(+) Th17 cells are enriched and activated in the 
gut of Crohn's disease patients. Furthermore, MDR1(+) Th17 cells are refractory
to several glucocorticoids used to treat clinical autoimmune disease. Thus,
MDR1(+) Th17 cells may be important mediators of chronic inflammation,
particularly in clinical settings of steroid resistant inflammatory disease.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20130301 
PMCID: PMC3892977
PMID: 24395888  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Ann Rheum Dis. 2015 Apr;74(4):778-85. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-203759. Epub 
2014 Jan 6.

Dysregulated CD4+ T cells from SLE-susceptible mice are sufficient to accelerate 
atherosclerosis in LDLr-/- mice.

Wilhelm AJ(1), Rhoads JP(2), Wade NS(3), Major AS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology, Vanderbilt University
Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Carter Center for Immunology Research, University 
of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(4)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee, USA Department of Pathology,
Microbiology and Immunology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
Tennessee, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Accelerated atherosclerosis is a major source of morbidity in systemic
lupus erythematosus (SLE). However, the cause of SLE-accelerated atherosclerosis 
remains unclear.
METHODS: CD4(+) T cells from C57/Bl/6 (B6) or SLE-susceptible B6.Sle1.2.3
(B6.SLE) mice were transferred into LDLr(-/-), Rag(-/-) mice. T cells were
examined for cytokine production and expression of interleukin-10 receptor
(IL-10R) and functional markers. T cells were isolated based on FoxP3(GFP)
expression and transferred to LDLr(-/-), Rag(-/-) mice to establish a role for
B6.SLE effector T cells (Teff) in atherosclerosis.
RESULTS: Mice receiving whole B6.SLE CD4(+) T cells displayed no other SLE
phenotype; however, atherosclerosis was increased nearly 40%. We noted
dysregulated IL-17 production and reduced frequency of IL-10R expression by
B6.SLE regulatory T cells (Treg). Functional assays indicated resistance of
B6.SLE Teff to suppression by both B6.SLE and B6 Treg. Transfer experiments with 
CD4(+)FoxP3(-) Teff and CD4(+)FoxP3(+) Treg from B6.SLE and B6 mice,
respectively, resulted in increased atherosclerosis compared with B6 Teff and
Treg recipients. Treg isolated from mice receiving B6.SLE Teff with B6 Treg had
increased production of IL-17 and fewer expressed IL-10R compared with B6 Teff
and Treg transfer.
CONCLUSIONS: Transfer of B6.SLE Teff to LDLr(-/-), Rag(-/-) mice results in
accelerated atherosclerosis independent of the source of Treg. In addition, the
presence of B6.SLE Teff resulted in more IL-17-producing Treg and fewer
expressing IL-10R, suggesting that B6.SLE Teff may mediate phenotypic changes in 
Treg. To our knowledge, this is the first study to provide direct evidence of the
role of B6.SLE Teff in accelerating atherosclerosis through resistance to Treg
suppression.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-203759 
PMCID: PMC4083014
PMID: 24395554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Surg Today. 2015 Jan;45(1):115-20. doi: 10.1007/s00595-013-0808-x. Epub 2014 Jan 
7.

Primary breast peripheral T-cell lymphoma not otherwise specified: report of a
case.

Muroya D(1), Toh U, Iwakuma N, Nakagawa S, Mishima M, Takahashi R, Takenaka M,
Shirouzu K, Agaki Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Kurume Faculty of Medicine, 67
Asahi-machi, Kurume, Fukuoka, Japan.

Malignant lymphomas of the breast are rare and primary breast lymphoma comprises 
<0.5 % of breast malignancies, within which T-cell lymphomas are an even rarer
subset. We report a case of primary breast peripheral T-cell lymphoma not
otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS). Histology of the biopsied specimen revealed
CD2(+), CD3(+), CD4(+), CD5(-), CD7(+), CD8(-), CD20(-), CD25(-), CD30(+),
CD56(-), bcl-2(-), EBV-ISH(-), TIA-I(-), and ATLA negative. The patient was
treated with six cycles of the CHOP regimen and died 17 months after the
diagnosis was made, despite complete remission after conventional chemotherapy.
To our knowledge, only 18 cases of primary peripheral T-cell lymphoma of the
breast and just one previous case of primary PTCL-NOS of the breast have been
reported in Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-013-0808-x 
PMCID: PMC4264879
PMID: 24395027  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Immunol Cell Biol. 2014 May-Jun;92(5):400-8. doi: 10.1038/icb.2013.104. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Absence of the lysosomal protein Limp-2 attenuates renal injury in crescentic
glomerulonephritis.

Lee DH(1), Gan PY(2), Katerelos M(3), Fraser SA(3), Gleich K(3), Holdsworth
SR(2), Power DA(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Nephrology, Austin Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia [2]
Department of Medicine, Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia [3] Department of Renal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
Nursing and Health Sciences, Eastern Health Clinical School, Monash University,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Medicine, Monash Medical Centre, Centre of Inflammatory
Diseases, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)The Institute for Breathing and Sleep, Austin Health, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
(4)1] Department of Nephrology, Austin Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia [2]
Department of Medicine, Austin Health, University of Melbourne, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia [3] The Institute for Breathing and Sleep, Austin Health,
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

In humans, mutations of the intrinsic lysosomal protein SCARB2 are associated
with myoclonic epilepsy, collapsing focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis, and
tubular proteinuria. Mice with deficiency of Limp-2 (the murine homologue)
develop tubular proteinuria but not focal and segmental glomerulosclerosis and
they have a defect in macrophage function. To further elucidate the role of
Limp-2 in immune function, we induced anti-glomerular basement membrane (GBM)
model of crescentic glomerulonephritis in wild-type (WT) and Limp-2(-/-)
littermates by intraperitoneal injections of nephrotoxic sheep serum. Renal
injury and immune responses were assessed on day 14. Compared with WT,
Limp-2(-/-) mice had significantly reduced crescent formation, interstitial
inflammation and a trend to reduced tubulointerstitial injury. On day 1 during
the heterologous phase of the disease, albuminuria was significantly increased in
WT but not in Limp-2(-/-) mice. On day 14, albuminuria and renal function were
similar in the two groups. There was, however, a significant reduction in the
influx of glomerular macrophages and CD4(+) T cells in Limp-2(-/-) mice.
Interleukin (IL)-4 and macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) mRNA
expression levels were significantly reduced. Despite the reduction in numbers of
infiltrating cells, flow cytometry showed no difference in macrophage or T-cell
numbers in the peripheral blood from untreated mice. The systemic humoral immune 
response, determined by glomerular mouse immunoglobulin G (IgG) deposition and
mouse anti-sheep IgG subclass production, was similar in both groups. These data 
suggest that absence of Limp-2 reduces inflammation in experimental crescentic
glomerulonephritis with decreased macrophage and T-cell infiltration in the
kidney. It suggests an important role for Limp-2 in mediating the inflammatory
response.

DOI: 10.1038/icb.2013.104 
PMID: 24394995  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2014 Feb;90(2):216-23. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0084. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Tuberculosis and histoplasmosis among human immunodeficiency virus-infected
patients: a comparative study.

Adenis A(1), Nacher M, Hanf M, Basurko C, Dufour J, Huber F, Aznar C, Carme B,
Couppie P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Investigation Clinique Epidémiologie Clinique Antilles-Guyane,
Service de Dermatologie Vénérologie, et Laboratoire Hospitalo-Universitaire de
Parasitologie-Mycologie, Inserm CIE 802, Centre Hospitalier de Cayenne, Cayenne, 
French Guiana; Equipe EA3593, Epidémiologie des Parasitoses et des Mycoses
Tropicales, Université des Antilles et de la Guyane, Cayenne, French Guiana.

In disease-endemic areas, histoplasmosis is the main differential diagnosis for
tuberculosis among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patients. However,
no study has compared the two diseases. Thus, the objective of this study was to 
compare tuberculosis and histoplasmosis in HIV-infected patients. A population of
205 HIV-infected patients (99 with tuberculosis and 106 with histoplasmosis)
hospitalized in Cayenne, French Guiana during January 1, 1997-December 31, 2008
were selected retrospectively from the French Hospital Database on HIV.
Multivariate analysis showed that tuberculosis was associated with cough
(adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 0.20, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.05-0.73) and 
a C-reactive protein level > 70 mg/L (AOR = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.97-0.99). Variables 
associated with disseminated histoplasmosis were a γ-glutamyl transferase level >
72 IU/L (AOR = 4.99, 95% CI = 1.31-18.99), origin from French Guiana (AOR = 5.20,
95% CI = 1.30-20.73), disseminated localization (AOR = 6.40, 95% CI =
1.44-28.45), a concomitant opportunistic infection (AOR = 6.71, 95% CI =
1.50-29.96), a neutrophil count < 2,750 cells/mm(3) (AOR = 10.54, 95% CI =
2.83-39.24), a CD4 cell count < 60 cells/mm(3) (AOR = 11.62, 95% CI =
2.30-58.63), and a platelet count < 150,000/mm(3) (AOR = 19.20, 95% CI =
3.35-110.14). Tuberculosis and histoplasmosis have similarities, but some factors
show a greater association with one of these diseases. Thus, adapted therapeutic 
choices can be made by using simple clinical and paraclinical criteria.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0084 
PMCID: PMC3919221
PMID: 24394475  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Trop Pediatr. 2014 Jun;60(3):179-88. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmt104. Epub 2014 Jan 
6.

Growth among HIV-infected children receiving antiretroviral therapy in Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania.

Mwiru RS(1), Spiegelman D(2), Duggan C(3), Seage GR 3rd(4), Semu H(5), Chalamilla
G(6), Kisenge R(7), Fawzi WW(8).

Author information: 
(1)Management and Development for Health (MDH), Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
rmwiru@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USADepartment of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public
Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(3)Department of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USACenter for Nutrition, Division of GI/Nutrition, Boston
Children's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(5)Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(6)Management and Development for Health (MDH), Dar es Salaam, TanzaniaDepartment
of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.
(7)Department of Pediatrics and Child Health, Muhimbili University of Health and 
Allied Sciences, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USADepartment of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health,
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USADepartment of Global Health and Population,
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

We assembled a prospective cohort of 3144 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infected children aged <15 years initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Dar
es Salaam, Tanzania. The prospective relationships of baseline covariates with
growth were examined using linear regression models. ART led to improvement in
mean weight-for-age (WAZ), height/length-for-age (HAZ) and weight-for-length or
body mass index (WLZ/BMIZ) scores. However, normal HAZ values were not attained
over an average follow-up of 17.2 months. After 6 months of ART, underweight (P <
0.001), low CD4 count or percent (P < 0.001), stavudine containing regimens (P = 
0.05) and advanced WHO disease stage (P < 0.001) at ART initiation were
associated with better WAZ scores. Age >5 years on the other hand was associated 
with less increase in WAZ score after 6 months of ART (P < 0.001). These findings
suggest that although ART improved the growth of the HIV-infected children in
Tanzania, adjunct nutritional interventions may be needed to ensure that the
growth of these children is optimized to the greatest extent possible.

© The Author [2014]. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved.
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmt104 
PMCID: PMC4040821
PMID: 24393831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Scand J Rheumatol. 2014;43(3):194-201. doi: 10.3109/03009742.2013.846407. Epub
2014 Jan 7.

Circulating Th17 and Th1 cells expressing CD161 are associated with disease
activity in rheumatoid arthritis.

Miao J(1), Zhang K, Lv M, Li Q, Zheng Z, Han Q, Guo N, Fan C, Zhu P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Xijing Hospital , Shaanxi Province , PR
China.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the percentages of major CD4+CD161+ T-cell
subsets [T-helper (Th)17, Th1, and Th17/Th1] in peripheral blood are correlated
with disease activity of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHOD: In 42 RA patients and 15 healthy controls (HCs), the percentages of
interleukin (IL)-17- and/or interferon (IFN)-γ-producing CD4+CD161+ T cells and
the plasma levels of related cytokines were assessed by flow cytometry and
cytometric bead array (CBA) analysis, respectively. Disease activity was
evaluated by the 28-joint Disease Activity Score (DAS28).
RESULTS: The percentage of circulating CD4+CD161+IL-17+IFN-γ- T cells (CD161+
Th17) in RA patients increased significantly and was higher in patients with
active disease status (DAS28 > 3.2) compared with those with low disease status
(DAS28 ≤ 3.2), and correlated positively with DAS28, C-reactive protein (CRP),
erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), IL-17, and IL-6 levels in RA patients. The 
percentage of circulating CD4+CD161+IL-17-IFN-γ+ T cells (CD161+ Th1) decreased
and correlated negatively with DAS28, CRP, and ESR levels in RA patients, while
the percentage of CD4+CD161+IL-17+IFN-γ+ T cells (CD161+ Th17/Th1) was unchanged 
in RA patients and was not correlated with RA disease activity.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that the percentages of circulating CD161+ Th17
and CD161+ Th1 cells in RA patients reflect the degree of disease activity. They 
support the hypothesis that Th17 cells are involved in the pathogenesis of RA and
that CD161+ Th17/CD161+ Th1-cell imbalance may contribute to the development of
RA.

DOI: 10.3109/03009742.2013.846407 
PMID: 24392804  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Crit Care. 2014 Jan 4;18(1):R3. doi: 10.1186/cc13176.

Targeting the programmed cell death 1: programmed cell death ligand 1 pathway
reverses T cell exhaustion in patients with sepsis.

Chang K, Svabek C, Vazquez-Guillamet C, Sato B, Rasche D, Wilson S, Robbins P,
Ulbrandt N, Suzich J, Green J, Patera AC, Blair W, Krishnan S, Hotchkiss R.

INTRODUCTION: A major pathophysiologic mechanism in sepsis is impaired host
immunity which results in failure to eradicate invading pathogens and increased
susceptibility to secondary infections. Although many immunosuppressive
mechanisms exist, increased expression of the inhibitory receptor programmed cell
death 1 (PD-1) and its ligand (PD-L1) are thought to play key roles. The newly
recognized phenomenon of T cell exhaustion is mediated in part by PD-1 effects on
T cells. This study tested the ability of anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies to 
prevent apoptosis and improve lymphocyte function in septic patients.
METHODS: Blood was obtained from 43 septic and 15 non-septic critically-ill
patients. Effects of anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, or isotype-control antibody on
lymphocyte apoptosis and interferon gamma (IFN-γ) and interleukin-2 (IL-2)
production were quantitated by flow cytometry.
RESULTS: Lymphocytes from septic patients produced decreased IFN-γ and IL-2 and
had increased CD8 T cell expression of PD-1 and decreased PD-L1 expression
compared to non-septic patients (P<0.05). Monocytes from septic patients had
increased PD-L1 and decreased HLA-DR expression compared to non-septic patients
(P<0.01). CD8 T cell expression of PD-1 increased over time in ICU as PD-L1,
IFN-γ, and IL2 decreased. In addition, donors with the highest CD8 PD-1
expression together with the lowest CD8 PD-L1 expression also had lower levels of
HLA-DR expression in monocytes, and an increased rate of secondary infections,
suggestive of a more immune exhausted phenotype. Treatment of cells from septic
patients with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 antibody decreased apoptosis and increased 
IFN-γ and IL-2 production in septic patients; (P<0.01). The percentage of CD4 T
cells that were PD-1 positive correlated with the degree of cellular apoptosis
(P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: In vitro blockade of the PD-1:PD-L1 pathway decreases apoptosis and 
improves immune cell function in septic patients. The current results together
with multiple positive studies of anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 in animal models of
bacterial and fungal infections and the relative safety profile of
anti-PD-1/anti-PD-L1 in human oncology trials to date strongly support the
initiation of clinical trials testing these antibodies in sepsis, a disorder with
a high mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/cc13176 
PMCID: PMC4056005
PMID: 24387680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. BMC Res Notes. 2014 Jan 6;7:5. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-5.

Prevalence and associated factors of thrombocytopenia among HAART-naive
HIV-positive patients at Gondar University Hospital, northwest Ethiopia.

Wondimeneh Y, Muluye D, Ferede G(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical and Laboratory Sciences, College of Medicine and Health
Sciences, University of Gondar, P,O, Box 196, Gondar, Ethiopia. get29f@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Hematological abnormalities are common in HIV positive patients. Of
these, thrombocytopenia is a known complication which has been associated with
progression of disease. However, its magnitude and associated factors in HAART
naive HIV positive patients is not known in Ethiopia. Therefore, the aim of this 
study was to determine the prevalence and associated factors of thrombocytopenia 
in HAART naïve HIV positive patients.
METHODS: A retrospective study was carried out among HAART naive HIV positive
patients at Gondar University Hospital, Northwest Ethiopia, from September 2011
through August 2012. Socio-demographic variables and immunohematological
(platelets and CD4+ T cells) values were carefully reviewed from medical records.
Associated factors and outcomes were assessed using logistic regression.
RESULTS: A total of 390 HAART naive HIV positive patients with a mean age of
33.65 years and a range of 18-70 years were reviewed. The overall prevalence of
thrombocytopenia was 23(5.9%). The mean CD4 count was 288 ± 188.2 cells/μL. HIV
patients whose age ≥ 50 years old were 2.5 times more likely to have
thrombocytopenia and those patients whose CD4 count < 350 were 2.6 times more
likely to have thrombocytopenia than HIV patients whose CD4 count ≥500. However, 
CD4 count was not statistically associated with prevalence of thrombocytopenia (P
> 0.05).
CONCLUSION: As CD4 counts of HIV patients decreasing, they have more likely to
have thrombocytopenia. Therefore, early diagnosis and treatment of
thrombocytopenia in these patients are necessary.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-5 
PMCID: PMC3916076
PMID: 24387326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Trop Med Int Health. 2014 Mar;19(3):246-255. doi: 10.1111/tmi.12253. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Oral lesions among HIV-infected children on antiretroviral treatment in West
Africa.

Meless D(1)(2), Ba B(3), Faye M(4), Diby JS(5), N'zoré S(6), Datté S(6), Diecket 
L(7), N'Diaye C(8), Aka EA(9), Kouakou K(10), Ba A(4), Ekouévi DK(1)(11), Dabis
F(11)(12), Shiboski C(13), Arrivé E(11)(12).

Author information: 
(1)Programme PAC-CI/CHU de Treichville, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(2)Département de Santé Publique, UFR Odontostomatologie, Université FHB,
Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(3)CHU d'Odonto-Stomatologie, Bamako, Mali.
(4)Hopital d'Enfants Albert Royer, Dakar, Sénégal.
(5)PMI Yopougon-Attié, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(6)CCTOS, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(7)CHU de Yopougon, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(8)Hôpital Gabriel Touré, Bamako, Mali.
(9)CePReF Enfant, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(10)CIRBA, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(11)Inserm U897, Equipe VIH et Santé Globale, Bordeaux, France.
(12)Université Bordeaux Segalen, Bordeaux, France.
(13)University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of oral mucosal diseases and dental caries 
among HIV-infected children receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART) in West
Africa and to identify the factors associated with the prevalence of oral mucosal
lesions.
METHODS: Multicentre cross-sectional survey in five paediatric HIV clinics in
Côte d'Ivoire, Mali and Sénégal. A standardised examination was performed by
trained dentists on a random sample of HIV-infected children aged 5-15 years
receiving ART. The prevalence of oral and dental lesions and mean number of
decayed, missing/extracted and filled teeth (DMFdefT) in temporary and permanent 
dentition were estimated with their 95% confidence interval (95% CI). We used
logistic regression to explore the association between children's characteristics
and the prevalence of oral mucosal lesions, expressed as prevalence odds ratio
(POR).
RESULTS: The median age of the 420 children (47% females) enrolled was 10.4 years
[interquartile range (IQR) = 8.3-12.6]. The median duration on ART was 4.6 years 
(IQR = 2.6-6.2); 84 (20.0%) had CD4 count<350 cells/mm(3). A total of 35 children
(8.3%; 95% CI: 6.1-11.1) exhibited 42 oral mucosal lesions (24 were candidiasis);
86.0% (95% CI = 82.6-89.3) of children had DMFdefT ≥ 1. The presence of oral
mucosal lesions was independently associated with CD4 count < 350 cells/mm(3)
(POR = 2.96, 95% CI = 1.06-4.36) and poor oral hygiene (POR = 2.69, 95% CI =
1.07-6.76).
CONCLUSIONS: Oral mucosal lesions still occur in HIV-infected African children
despite ART, but rarely. However, dental caries were common and severe in this
population, reflecting the need to include oral health in the comprehensive care 
of HIV.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.12253 
PMCID: PMC4001247
PMID: 24386972  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Int J Cancer. 2014 Aug 1;135(3):529-40. doi: 10.1002/ijc.28702. Epub 2014 Jan 10.

Beneficial bacteria stimulate host immune cells to counteract dietary and genetic
predisposition to mammary cancer in mice.

Lakritz JR(1), Poutahidis T, Levkovich T, Varian BJ, Ibrahim YM, Chatzigiagkos A,
Mirabal S, Alm EJ, Erdman SE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Comparative Medicine, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA.

Recent studies suggest health benefits including protection from cancer after
eating fermented foods such as probiotic yogurt, though the mechanisms are not
well understood. Here we tested mechanistic hypotheses using two different animal
models: the first model studied development of mammary cancer when eating a
Westernized diet, and the second studied animals with a genetic predilection to
breast cancer. For the first model, outbred Swiss mice were fed a Westernized
chow putting them at increased risk for development of mammary tumors. In this
Westernized diet model, mammary carcinogenesis was inhibited by routine exposure 
to Lactobacillus reuteri ATCC-PTA-6475 in drinking water. The second model was
FVB strain erbB2 (HER2) mutant mice, genetically susceptible to mammary tumors
mimicking breast cancers in humans, being fed a regular (non-Westernized) chow
diet. We found that oral supplement with these purified lactic acid bacteria
alone was sufficient to inhibit features of mammary neoplasia in both models. The
protective mechanism was determined to be microbially-triggered CD4+CD25+
lymphocytes. When isolated and transplanted into other subjects, these L.
reuteri-stimulated lymphocytes were sufficient to convey transplantable
anti-cancer protection in the cell recipient animals. These data demonstrate that
host immune responses to environmental microbes significantly impact and inhibit 
cancer progression in distal tissues such as mammary glands, even in genetically 
susceptible mice. This leads us to conclude that consuming fermentative microbes 
such as L. reuteri may offer a tractable public health approach to help
counteract the accumulated dietary and genetic carcinogenic events integral in
the Westernized diet and lifestyle.

© 2013 The Authors. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc. on behalf of UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.28702 
PMCID: PMC4131439
PMID: 24382758  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):373-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1311987111. 
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Altered inactivation of commensal LPS due to acyloxyacyl hydrolase deficiency in 
colonic dendritic cells impairs mucosal Th17 immunity.

Janelsins BM(1), Lu M, Datta SK.

Author information: 
(1)Bacterial Pathogenesis Unit and Antibacterial Host Defense Unit, Laboratory of
Clinical Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892.

Interleukin (IL) 17-secreting CD4(+) helper T cells (Th17 cells) are essential
for host defense at mucosal surfaces, and Th17 cell dysregulation can result in
autoimmunity. Exposure to microbial products, such as bacterial LPS, can affect
the ability of dendritic cells (DCs) to polarize Th17 cells. Acyloxyacyl
hydrolase (AOAH) is a mammalian enzyme expressed by antigen (Ag)-presenting cells
that deacylates and thereby inactivates LPS in host tissues. We hypothesized that
inactivation of intestinal microbiota-derived LPS by AOAH influences the ability 
of DCs to polarize and generate Th17 effector cells. We found that LPS-containing
Gram-negative microbiota augmented the differentiation of Ag-specific Th17 cells,
and identified a colonic DC subset (CD103(+)CD11b(+)ALDH(-)) displaying a unique 
capacity to both express AOAH and polarize Th17 cells. Compared with WT, these
Aoah(-/-) colonic DCs produce less IL-6, resulting in diminished Ag-specific Th17
polarization and increased regulatory T-cell induction in vitro. Oral
administration of LPS led to reduced IL-6 production from CD103(+)CD11b(+)ALDH(-)
colonic DCs in Aoah(-/-) mice compared with Aoah(+/+) mice, resulting in an
abrogated Ag-specific Th17 response in the colon after mucosal immunization that 
could be rescued by systemic delivery of recombinant IL-6. These data identify
the ability of AOAH to modulate microbiota signals that drive Th17 polarization
and influence mucosal T-cell immunity, and suggest that host pathways to handle
microbiota-derived products may be targeted to modulate Th17 responses in the
context of inflammatory disorders or infection at mucosal surfaces.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1311987111 
PMCID: PMC3890863
PMID: 24344308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):234-8. doi: 10.1038/nature12815. Epub 2013 Dec 15.

Structural basis of lentiviral subversion of a cellular protein degradation
pathway.

Schwefel D(1), Groom HC(2), Boucherit VC(2), Christodoulou E(1), Walker PA(1),
Stoye JP(2), Bishop KN(2), Taylor IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Structure, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, 
The Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.
(2)Division of Virology, MRC National Institute for Medical Research, The
Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Jan 9;505(7482):167-8.

Lentiviruses contain accessory genes that have evolved to counteract the effects 
of host cellular defence proteins that inhibit productive infection. One such
restriction factor, SAMHD1, inhibits human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1
infection of myeloid-lineage cells as well as resting CD4(+) T cells by reducing 
the cellular deoxynucleoside 5'-triphosphate (dNTP) concentration to a level at
which the viral reverse transcriptase cannot function. In other lentiviruses,
including HIV-2 and related simian immunodeficiency viruses (SIVs), SAMHD1
restriction is overcome by the action of viral accessory protein x (Vpx) or the
related viral protein r (Vpr) that target and recruit SAMHD1 for proteasomal
degradation. The molecular mechanism by which these viral proteins are able to
usurp the host cell's ubiquitination machinery to destroy the cell's protection
against these viruses has not been defined. Here we present the crystal structure
of a ternary complex of Vpx with the human E3 ligase substrate adaptor DCAF1 and 
the carboxy-terminal region of human SAMHD1. Vpx is made up of a three-helical
bundle stabilized by a zinc finger motif, and wraps tightly around the
disc-shaped DCAF1 molecule to present a new molecular surface. This adapted
surface is then able to recruit SAMHD1 via its C terminus, making it a competent 
substrate for the E3 ligase to mark for proteasomal degradation. The structure
reported here provides a molecular description of how a lentiviral accessory
protein is able to subvert the cell's normal protein degradation pathway to
inactivate the cellular viral defence system.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12815 
PMCID: PMC3886899
PMID: 24336198  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2014 Jan 10;443(2):413-21. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.11.097. Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Immunomodulatory effect of poly-γ-glutamic acid derived from Bacillus subtilis on
natural killer dendritic cells.

Lee SW(1), Park HJ(2), Park SH(3), Kim N(4), Hong S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Institute of Bioscience, Sejong
University, Seoul 143-747, Republic of Korea; School of Life Sciences and
Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Dept. of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Institute of Bioscience, Sejong
University, Seoul 143-747, Republic of Korea.
(3)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-701,
Republic of Korea.
(4)Asan Institute for Life Sciences, Asan Medical Center, Seoul 138-736, Republic
of Korea. Electronic address: naykim@amc.seoul.kr.
(5)Dept. of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Institute of Bioscience, Sejong
University, Seoul 143-747, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
shong@sejong.ac.kr.

Bacillus subtilis-derived poly-γ-glutamic acid (γPGA) stimulates dendritic cells 
(DCs) to produce IL12, leading to CD4(+) T cell differentiation toward the Th1
phenotype, but DCs consist of heterogeneous subpopulations with a variety of
immune functions. Among these, natural killer dendritic cells (NKDCs) play an
important role in anti-tumor immune responses. Herein, we demonstrate the role of
NKDCs in γPGA-meditated anti-tumor immune responses. NK1.1(+) CD11c(+) NKDCs were
stimulated upon γPGA stimulation in vitro and in vivo to up-regulate lymphocyte
activation markers, MHC class I and II, and co-stimulatory molecules. In
particular, NKDCs were activated by γPGA to produce IFNγ and TNFα, like NK cells,
as well as IL12, like DCs, implying that NKDCs have unique and multifunctional
roles. Importantly, NKDCs stimulated by γPGA conferred stronger anti-tumor
effects in mice and showed increased cytotoxicity against various tumor cell
lines in vitro. In conclusion, NKDCs are one of the key players in anti-tumor
immunity induced by γPGA.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.11.097 
PMID: 24309101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Cell Microbiol. 2014 Jun;16(6):896-911. doi: 10.1111/cmi.12247. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Mycoplasma superantigen initiates a TLR4-dependent Th17 cascade that enhances
arthritis after blocking B7-1 in Mycoplasma arthritidis-infected mice.

Mu HH(1), Nourian MM, Jiang HH, Tran JW, Cole BC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah 
School of Medicine, 30 North 1900 East, Salt Lake City, UT, 84132, USA.

Mycoplasma arthritidis is a natural pathogen of rodents causing arthritis, toxic 
shock and necrotizing fasciitis. It secretes a potent superantigen (SAg), MAM,
that differentially affects the immune system depending upon presence or absence 
of TLR4, thus potentially influencing disease outcomes. Here, we establish that
antibody to co-stimulatory molecule B7-1(CD80) enhances arthritis in wild-type
C3H/HeSnJ (TLR2+4+) mice but suppresses arthritis in TLR4-defect C3H/HeJ
(TLR2+4-) mice. Also, blockade of the B7-1/CD28 co-stimulatory pathway in
C3H/HeSnJ mice resulted in a marked increase in an alternative co-stimulatory
pathway ICOS/ICOSL that was associated with elevation of the IL-17/Th17cascade
with enhanced IL-23, IL-6, and the RORγt and STAT3 transcriptional factors on
CD4+ T cells. Anti- B7-1 also increased inflammatory chemokines and the stress
protein HMGB1 that promotes cellular infiltration to joints. Using a
MAM-deficient strain of M. arthritidis, a monoclonal antibody to TLR4 and a
TLR4-defective mouse strain, we established that both MAM and TLR4 are required
for the systemic and local joint triggering of the Th17/IL-17 cascade in mice
treated with anti-B7-1 antibody. Importantly, blocking of IL-17 with anti-IL-17
antibody suppressed the elevated arthritis in M. arthritidis-infected mice
treated with anti-B7-1 antibody. Thus, this unique model of arthritis illustrates
how microbial agonists can bridgeinnate and adaptive immune responses to redirect
signalling pathways, thus promoting chronic inflammatory and autoimmune disease.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cmi.12247 
PMID: 24298898  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Cancer Sci. 2014 Feb;105(2):159-67. doi: 10.1111/cas.12332. Epub 2014 Jan 4.

Suppression of Tregs by anti-glucocorticoid induced TNF receptor antibody
enhances the antitumor immunity of interferon-α gene therapy for pancreatic
cancer.

Aida K(1), Miyakawa R, Suzuki K, Narumi K, Udagawa T, Yamamoto Y, Chikaraishi T, 
Yoshida T, Aoki K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Gene and Immune Medicine, National Cancer Center Research
Institute, Tokyo, Japan; Department of Urology, St. Marianna University,
Kanagawa, Japan.

We have reported that interferon (IFN)-α can attack cancer cells by multiple
antitumor mechanisms including the induction of direct cancer cell death and the 
enhancement of an immune response in several pancreatic cancer models. However,
an immunotolerant microenvironment in the tumors is often responsible for the
failure of the cancer immunotherapy. Here we examined whether the suppression of 
regulatory T cells (Tregs) within tumors can enhance an antitumor immunity
induced by an intratumoral IFN-α gene transfer. First we showed that an
intraperitoneal administration of an agonistic anti-glucocorticoid induced TNF
receptor (GITR) monoclonal antibody (mAb), which is reported to suppress the
function of Tregs, significantly inhibited subcutaneous tumor growth in a murine 
pancreatic cancer model. The anti-GITR mAb was then combined with the
intratumoral injection of the IFN-α-adenovirus vector. The treatment with the
antibody synergistically augmented the antitumor effect of IFN-α gene therapy not
only in the vector-injected tumors but also in the vector-uninjected tumors.
Immunostaining showed that the anti-GITR mAb decreased Foxp3(+) cells
infiltrating in the tumors, while the intratumoral IFN-α gene transfer increased 
CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in the tumors. Therefore, the combination therapy
strongly inclined the immune balance of the tumor microenvironment in an
antitumor direction, leading to a marked systemic antitumor effect. The CCR5
expression on Tregs was downregulated in the antibody-treated mice, which may
explain the decrease of tumor-infiltrating Tregs. The combination of
Treg-suppression by GITR mAb and the tumor immunity induction by IFN-α gene
therapy could be a promising therapeutic strategy for pancreatic cancer.

© 2013 The Authors. Cancer Science published by Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd on 
behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12332 
PMCID: PMC4317823
PMID: 24289533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Vaccine. 2014 Jan 9;32(3):393-400. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.11.033. Epub 2013 
Nov 20.

Two replication-defective adenoviral vaccine vectors for the induction of immune 
responses to PPRV.

Rojas JM(1), Moreno H(2), García A(3), Ramírez JC(4), Sevilla N(5), Martín V(6).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigación en Sanidad Animal (CISA-INIA), Instituto Nacional de
Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria, 28130 Valdeolmos, Madrid,
Spain. Electronic address: jmrojas@cnb.csic.es.
(2)Centro de Investigación en Sanidad Animal (CISA-INIA), Instituto Nacional de
Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria, 28130 Valdeolmos, Madrid,
Spain. Electronic address: hector.moreno@inia.es.
(3)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), C/Melchor
Fernández Almagro no 3, 28029 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: agarcia@cnic.es.
(4)Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), C/Melchor
Fernández Almagro no 3, 28029 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address:
jcramirez@cnic.es.
(5)Centro de Investigación en Sanidad Animal (CISA-INIA), Instituto Nacional de
Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria, 28130 Valdeolmos, Madrid,
Spain. Electronic address: sevilla@inia.es.
(6)Centro de Investigación en Sanidad Animal (CISA-INIA), Instituto Nacional de
Investigación y Tecnología Agraria y Alimentaria, 28130 Valdeolmos, Madrid,
Spain. Electronic address: veronica.martin@inia.es.

Peste des petits ruminants is a highly contagious disease of small ruminants
caused by a Morbillivirus, peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV). Two
recombinant replication-defective human adenovirus serotype 5 (Ad5) containing
the highly immunogenic fusion protein (F) and hemaglutinine protein (H) genes
from PPRV were constructed. HEK293A cells infected with either virus (Ad5-PPRV-F 
or -H) express F and H proteins respectively. These viruses were used to
vaccinate mice by intramuscular inoculation. Both viruses elicited PPRV-specific 
B- and T-cell responses. Thus, after two immunizations, sera from immunized mice 
elicited neutralizing antibody response, indicating that this approach has the
potential to confer protective immunity. In addition, we detected a significant
antigen specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T-cell response in mice vaccinated with either
virus. These results indicate that these adenovirus constructs offer a promising 
alternative to current vaccine strategies for the development of PPRV DIVA
vaccines.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.11.033 
PMID: 24269622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Blood. 2014 Jan 9;123(2):290-9. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-07-514372. Epub 2013 Nov 
19.

Diverse T-cell responses characterize the different manifestations of cutaneous
graft-versus-host disease.

Brüggen MC(1), Klein I, Greinix H, Bauer W, Kuzmina Z, Rabitsch W, Kalhs P,
Petzelbauer P, Knobler R, Stingl G, Stary G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, Division of Immunology, Allergy and Infectious
Diseases.

Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) is a major complication of allogeneic
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) and can present in an acute
(aGVHD), a chronic lichenoid (clGVHD), and a chronic sclerotic form (csGVHD). It 
is unclear whether similar or different pathomechanisms lead to these distinct
clinical presentations. To address this issue, we collected lesional skin
biopsies from aGVHD (n = 25), clGVHD (n = 17), and csGVHD (n = 7) patients as
well as serial nonlesional biopsies from HCT recipients (prior to or post-HCT) (n
= 14) and subjected them to phenotypic and functional analyses. Our results
revealed striking differences between aGVHD and clGVHD. In aGVHD, we found a
clear predominance of T helper (Th)2 cytokines/chemokines and, surprisingly, of
interleukin (IL)-22 messenger RNA as well as an increase of IL-22-producing
CD4(+) T cells. Thymic stromal lymphopoietin, a cytokine skewing the immune
response toward a Th2 direction, was elevated at day 20 to 30 post-HCT in the
skin of patients who later developed aGVHD. In sharp contrast to aGVHD, the
immune response occurring in clGVHD showed a mixed Th1/Th17 signature with
upregulated Th1/Th17 cytokine/chemokine transcripts and elevated numbers of
interferon-γ- and IL-17-producing CD8(+) T cells. Our findings shed new light on 
the T-cell responses involved in the different manifestations of cutaneous GVHD
and identify molecular signatures indicating the development of the disease.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2013-07-514372 
PMID: 24255916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Biol Chem. 2014 Jan 10;289(2):639-53. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.515767. Epub 2013
Nov 8.

A novel family of human leukocyte antigen class II receptors may have its origin 
in archaic human species.

Temme S(1), Zacharias M, Neumann J, Wohlfromm S, König A, Temme N, Springer S,
Trowsdale J, Koch N.

Author information: 
(1)From the Section of Immunobiology, Institute of Genetics, University of Bonn, 
53115 Bonn, Germany.

Comment in
    J Biol Chem. 2014 Apr 4;289(14):10252.
    J Biol Chem. 2014 Apr 4;289(14):10253.

HLA class II α and β chains form receptors for antigen presentation to CD4(+) T
cells. Numerous pairings of class II α and β subunits from the wide range of
haplotypes and isotypes may form, but most of these combinations, in particular
those produced by isotype mixing, yielded mismatched dimers. It is unclear how
selection of functional receptors is achieved. At the atomic level, it is not
known which interactions of class II residues regulate selection of matched αβ
heterodimers and the evolutionary origin of matched isotype mixed dimer
formation. In this study we investigated assembly of isotype-mixed HLA class II α
and β heterodimers. Assembly and carbohydrate maturation of various HLA-class II 
isotype-mixed α and β subunits was dependent on the groove binding section of the
invariant chain (Ii). By mutation of polymorphic DPβ sequences, we identified two
motifs, Lys-69 and GGPM-(84-87), that are engaged in Ii-dependent assembly of DPβ
with DRα. We identified five members of a family of DPβ chains containing Lys-69 
and GGPM 84-87, which assemble with DRα. The Lys/GGPM motif is present in the DPβ
sequence of the Neanderthal genome, and this ancient sequence is related to the
human allele DPB1*0401. By site-directed mutagenesis, we inspected Neanderthal
amino acid residues that differ from the DPB1*0401 allele and aimed to determine 
whether matched heterodimers are formed by assembly of DPβ mutants with DRα.
Because the *0401 allele is rare in the sub-Saharan population but frequent in
the European population, it may have arisen in modern humans by admixture with
Neanderthals in Europe.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.515767 
PMCID: PMC3887193
PMID: 24214983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Ann Intern Med. 2014 Jan 7;160(1):30-7. doi:
10.7326/0003-4819-160-1-201401070-00731.

Elevated risk for invasive meningococcal disease among persons with HIV.

Miller L, Arakaki L, Ramautar A, Bodach S, Braunstein SL, Kennedy J,
Steiner-Sichel L, Ngai S, Shepard C, Weiss D.

BACKGROUND: An association between HIV and invasive meningococcal disease (IMD)
has been suggested by several previous studies but has not been fully described
in the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy in the United States.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the risk for IMD and death in people living with HIV/AIDS 
(PLWHA) in New York City (NYC) and the contribution of CD4(+) cell count and
viral load (VL) to IMD risk.
DESIGN: Comparison of the incidence rate of IMD among PLWHA with that among
HIV-uninfected persons. Surveillance data on IMD for patients aged 15 to 64 years
from 2000 to 2011 were matched to death and HIV registries to calculate IMD risk 
and case-fatality ratios. A subset of PLWHA who had a CD4(+) cell count and VL
measurement near the time of their IMD infection was included in age-matched
case-control analyses to assess HIV markers and IMD risk.
SETTING: Retrospective cohort from communicable disease surveillance.
PATIENTS: 265 persons aged 15 to 64 years with IMD during 2000 to 2011.
MEASUREMENTS: Meningococcal and HIV data abstracted from surveillance and
registry databases, including CD4(+) cell counts and VL.
RESULTS: The average annual incidence rate of IMD was 0.39 cases per 100 000
persons. The relative risk for IMD among PLWHA in NYC during 2000 to 2011 was
10.0 (95% CI, 7.2 to 14.1). Among PLWHA, patients with IMD were 5.3 times (CI,
1.4 to 20.4 times) as likely as age-matched control patients to have CD4(+)
counts less than 0.200 × 10(9) cells/L.
LIMITATION: Missing data on smoking status and comorbidity.
CONCLUSION: People living with HIV/AIDS in NYC are at increased risk for IMD.
Cost-effectiveness and vaccine efficacy studies are needed to evaluate the value 
of a national recommendation for routine meningococcal vaccination of PLWHA.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: New York City Tax Levy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-160-1-201401070-00731 
PMID: 24166695  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Hepatol Res. 2014 Oct;44(10):E100-9. doi: 10.1111/hepr.12234. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Influence of splenectomy in patients with liver cirrhosis and hypersplenism.

Nomura Y(1), Kage M, Ogata T, Kondou R, Kinoshita H, Ohshima K, Yano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Kurume University Hospital, Kurume, Japan;
Department of Surgery, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, Japan;
Department of Pathology, Kurume University School of Medicine, Kurume, Japan.

AIM: Splenectomy improves hypersplenic thrombocytopenia in cirrhotic patients
with hypersplenism. However, the long-term influence of splenectomy has not been 
clarified. We examined whether splenectomy improved liver fibrosis and caused
immunological changes.
METHODS: We collected liver and spleen specimens and peripheral blood (PB) from
26 patients with hepatitis C virus-related liver cirrhosis. An
immunohistochemical examination of CD4, CD8, forkhead box P3, granzyme B and
transforming growth factor-β1, and Masson-trichrome stain were performed in
spleen and liver tissues and in seven cases of follow-up liver biopsy sections
obtained after splenectomy. We obtained PB before and at various intervals after 
splenectomy. We also examined the ratio of CD4(+) and CD8(+) lymphocytes in PB
using flow cytometry.
RESULTS: We observed improvements in liver fibrosis in four biopsy specimens
obtained after splenectomy, in which fibrotic areas significantly decreased from 
19.5% to 8.2% (P < 0.05). Increases were also observed in the ratio of CD8(+)
cells in PB after splenectomy, which resulted in a significant decrease in the
CD4(+) /CD8(+) ratio (P < 0.001). The carcinogenic rate in patients with a CD4(+)
 : CD8(+) ratio that decreased by more than 0.5 at 1 month after splenectomy was 
significantly lower than that in patients with a ratio that decreased by less
than 0.5 (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Splenectomy may improve liver fibrosis and cause beneficial
immunological changes in cirrhotic patients with hepatitis. Improvements in
antitumor mechanisms can be also expected.

© 2013 The Japan Society of Hepatology.

DOI: 10.1111/hepr.12234 
PMID: 24033833 

