
1. Virology. 2015 Jan 1;474:10-8. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2014.10.015. Epub 2014 Nov 7.

Primate lentiviruses are differentially inhibited by interferon-induced
transmembrane proteins.

Qian J(1), Le Duff Y(2), Wang Y(1), Pan Q(2), Ding S(3), Zheng YM(4), Liu SL(4), 
Liang C(5).

Author information: 
(1)Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3T
1E2; Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 2B4.
(2)Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3T
1E2.
(3)Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3T
1E2; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada H3A 2B4.
(4)Department of Molecular Microbiology & Immunology, School of Medicine, Bond
Life Sciences Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211-7310, USA.
(5)Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3T
1E2; Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 2B4;
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec,
Canada H3A 2B4. Electronic address: chen.liang@mcgill.ca.

Interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins inhibit the entry of a large
number of viruses. Not surprisingly, many viruses are refractory to this
inhibition. In this study, we report that different strains of HIV and SIV are
inhibited by human IFITM proteins to various degrees, with SIV of African green
monkeys (SIV(AGM)) being mostly restricted by human IFITM2. Interestingly,
SIV(AGM) is as much inhibited by human IFITM2 as by IFITM3 of its own host
African green monkeys. Our data further demonstrate that the entry of SIV(AGM) is
impaired by human IFITM2 and that this inhibition is overcome by the
cholesterol-binding compound amphotericin B that also overcomes IFITM inhibition 
of influenza A viruses. These results suggest that IFITM proteins exploit similar
mechanisms to inhibit the entry of both pH-independent primate lentiviruses and
the pH-dependent influenza A viruses.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2014.10.015 
PMCID: PMC4581848
PMID: 25463599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 30;9(6):e101056. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101056.
eCollection 2014.

HIV-1 and its gp120 inhibits the influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 life cycle in an
IFITM3-dependent fashion.

Mesquita M(1), Fintelman-Rodrigues N(1), Sacramento CQ(1), Abrantes JL(1), Costa 
E(1), Temerozo JR(2), Siqueira MM(1), Bou-Habib DC(2), Souza TM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Viruses Laboratory, WHO/NIC, Oswaldo Cruz Institute/Fiocruz, Rio
de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory on Thymus Research, Oswaldo Cruz Institute/Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro,
RJ, Brazil.

HIV-1-infected patients co-infected with A(H1N1)pdm09 surprisingly presented
benign clinical outcome. The knowledge that HIV-1 changes the host homeostatic
equilibrium, which may favor the patient resistance to some co-pathogens,
prompted us to investigate whether HIV-1 infection could influence A(H1N1)pdm09
life cycle in vitro. We show here that exposure of A(H1N1)pdm09-infected
epithelial cells to HIV-1 viral particles or its gp120 enhanced by 25% the IFITM3
content, resulting in a decrease in influenza replication. This event was
dependent on toll-like receptor 2 and 4. Moreover, knockdown of IFITM3 prevented 
HIV-1 ability to inhibit A(H1N1)pdm09 replication. HIV-1 infection also increased
IFITM3 levels in human primary macrophages by almost 100%. Consequently, the
arrival of influenza ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) to nucleus of macrophages was
inhibited, as evaluated by different approaches. Reduction of influenza RNPs
entry into the nucleus tolled A(H1N1)pdm09 life cycle in macrophages earlier than
usual, limiting influenza's ability to induce TNF-α. As judged by analysis of the
influenza hemagglutin (HA) gene from in vitro experiments and from samples of
HIV-1/A(H1N1)pdm09 co-infected individuals, the HIV-1-induced reduction of
influenza replication resulted in delayed viral evolution. Our results may
provide insights on the mechanisms that may have attenuated the clinical course
of Influenza in HIV-1/A(H1N1)pdm09 co-infected patients during the recent
influenza form 2009/2010.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101056 
PMCID: PMC4076258
PMID: 24978204  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Gastroenterology. 2013 Dec;145(6):1404-13.e1-10. doi:
10.1053/j.gastro.2013.08.034. Epub 2013 Aug 22.

Use of laser capture microdissection to map hepatitis C virus-positive
hepatocytes in human liver.

Kandathil AJ(1), Graw F, Quinn J, Hwang HS, Torbenson M, Perelson AS, Ray SC,
Thomas DL, Ribeiro RM, Balagopal A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University Baltimore, Maryland.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2013 Dec;145(6):1199-202.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) predominantly infects hepatocytes, but
many hepatocytes are not infected; studies have shown that HCV antigens cluster
within the liver. We investigated spatial distribution and determinants of HCV
replication in human liver samples.
METHODS: We analyzed liver samples from 4 patients with chronic HCV infection
(genotype 1, Metavir scores 0-1) to estimate the proportion of infected
hepatocytes and the amount of HCV viral RNA (vRNA) per cell. Single-cell laser
capture microdissection was used to capture more than 1000 hepatocytes in grids, 
to preserve geometric relationships. HCV vRNA and interferon-induced
transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) messenger RNA (the transcript of an
interferon-stimulated gene) were measured in the same hepatocytes by quantitative
polymerase chain reaction and assembled in maps to identify areas of high and low
HCV replication.
RESULTS: Patients' serum levels of HCV RNA ranged from 6.87 to 7.40 log10 IU/mL; 
the proportion of HCV-infected hepatocytes per person ranged from 21% to 45%, and
the level of vRNA ranged from 1 to 50 IU/hepatocyte. Infection was not random; we
identified clustering of HCV-positive hepatocytes using infected-neighbor
analysis (P < .0005) and distance to the kth nearest neighbor compared with
random distributions, obtained by bootstrap simulations (P < .02). Hepatocytes
that expressed IFITM3 did not appear to cluster and were largely HCV negative.
CONCLUSIONS: We used single-cell laser capture and high-resolution analysis to
show that in human liver HCV infects hepatocytes in nonrandom clusters, whereas
expression of antiviral molecules is scattered among hepatocytes. These findings 
show that quantitative single-cell RNA measurements can be used to estimate the
abundance of HCV vRNA per infected human hepatocyte and are consistent with
cell-cell propagation of infection in the absence of clustered IFITM3.

Copyright © 2013 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2013.08.034 
PMCID: PMC4005338
PMID: 23973767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Immunol. 2013 Feb 15;190(4):1583-90. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1202920. Epub 2013
Jan 11.

IFN-α treatment inhibits acute Friend retrovirus replication primarily through
the antiviral effector molecule Apobec3.

Harper MS(1), Barrett BS, Smith DS, Li SX, Gibbert K, Dittmer U, Hasenkrug KJ,
Santiago ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

Therapeutic administration of IFN-α in clinical trials significantly reduced
HIV-1 plasma viral load and human T-lymphotropic virus type I proviral load in
infected patients. The mechanism may involve the concerted action of multiple
antiretroviral effectors collectively known as "restriction factors," which could
vary in relative importance according to the magnitude of transcriptional
induction. However, direct genetic approaches to identify the relevant IFN-α
restriction factors will not be feasible in humans in vivo. Meanwhile, mice
encode an analogous set of restriction factor genes and could be used to obtain
insights on how IFN-α could inhibit retroviruses in vivo. As expected, IFN-α
treatment of mice significantly upregulated the transcription of multiple
restriction factors including Tetherin/BST2, SAMHD1, Viperin, ISG15, OAS1, and
IFITM3. However, a dominant antiretroviral factor, Apobec3, was only minimally
induced. To determine whether Apobec3 was necessary for direct IFN-α
antiretroviral action in vivo, wild-type and Apobec3-deficient mice were infected
with Friend retrovirus, then treated with IFN-α. Treatment of infected wild-type 
mice with IFN-α significantly reduced acute plasma viral load 28-fold, splenic
proviral load 5-fold, bone marrow proviral load 14-fold, and infected bone marrow
cells 7-fold, but no inhibition was observed in Apobec3-deficient mice. These
findings reveal that IFN-α inhibits acute Friend retrovirus infection primarily
through the antiviral effector Apobec3 in vivo, demonstrate that transcriptional 
induction levels did not predict the mechanism of IFN-α-mediated control, and
highlight the potential of the human APOBEC3 proteins as therapeutic targets
against pathogenic retrovirus infections.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1202920 
PMCID: PMC3654153
PMID: 23315078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Virol. 2012 Dec;86(24):13697-707. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01828-12. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

The N-terminal region of IFITM3 modulates its antiviral activity by regulating
IFITM3 cellular localization.

Jia R(1), Pan Q, Ding S, Rong L, Liu SL, Geng Y, Qiao W, Liang C.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology (Ministry of
Education) and Key Laboratory of Microbial Functional Genomics (Tianjin), College
of Life Sciences, Nankai University, Tianjin, China.

Interferon-inducible transmembrane (IFITM) protein family members IFITM1, -2, and
-3 restrict the infection of multiple enveloped viruses. Significant enrichment
of a minor IFITM3 allele was recently reported for patients who were hospitalized
for seasonal and 2009 H1N1 pandemic flu. This IFITM3 allele lacks the region
corresponding to the first amino-terminal 21 amino acids and is unable to inhibit
influenza A virus. In this study, we found that deleting this 21-amino-acid
region relocates IFITM3 from the endosomal compartments to the cell periphery.
This finding likely underlies the lost inhibition of influenza A virus that
completes its entry exclusively within endosomes at low pH. Yet, wild-type IFITM3
and the mutant with the 21-amino-acid deletion inhibit HIV-1 replication equally 
well. Given the pH-independent nature of HIV-1 entry, our results suggest that
IFITM3 can inhibit viruses that enter cells via different routes and that its
N-terminal region is specifically required for controlling pH-dependent viruses.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01828-12 
PMCID: PMC3503121
PMID: 23055554  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Virol. 2011 Mar;85(5):2126-37. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01531-10. Epub 2010 Dec 22.

The IFITM proteins inhibit HIV-1 infection.

Lu J(1), Pan Q, Rong L, He W, Liu SL, Liang C.

Author information: 
(1)McGill AIDS Centre, Lady Davis Institute-Jewish General Hospital, Montreal,
Quebec, Canada.

Erratum in
    J Virol. 2011 Apr;85(8):4043. He, Wei [added].

Type I interferon protects cells from virus infection through the induction of a 
group of genes collectively named interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs). In this
study, we utilized short hairpin RNA (shRNA) to deplete ISGs in SupT1 cells in
order to identify ISGs that suppress the production of human immunodeficiency
virus type 1 (HIV-1). Among the ISG candidates thus identified were
interferon-induced transmembrane (IFITM) proteins, including IFITM1, IFITM2, and 
IFITM3, that potently inhibit HIV-1 replication at least partially through
interfering with virus entry. Further mutagenesis analysis shows that the
intracellular region, rather than the N- and C-terminal extracellular domains, is
essential for the antiviral activity of IFITM1. Altogether, these data suggest
that the IFITM proteins serve as important components of the innate immune system
to restrict HIV-1 infection.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01531-10 
PMCID: PMC3067758
PMID: 21177806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

