
1. Oncoimmunology. 2016 Oct 20;5(12):e1247135. doi: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1247135.
eCollection 2016.

The expression profiles and regulation of PD-L1 in tumor-induced myeloid-derived 
suppressor cells.

Lu C(1), Redd PS(2), Lee JR(3), Savage N(4), Liu K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta, GA, USA; Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center, Augusta, GA, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta, GA, USA; Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center, Augusta, GA, USA; Georgia
Cancer Center, Augusta University, Augusta, GA, USA.
(3)Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center, Augusta, GA, USA; Pathology, Medical
College of Georgia, Augusta, GA, USA.
(4)Pathology, Medical College of Georgia , Augusta, GA, USA.

Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is an inhibitory ligand that binds to PD-1 to
suppress T cell activation. PD-L1 is constitutively expressed and inducible in
tumor cells, but the expression profiles and regulatory mechanism of PD-L1 in
myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are largely unknown. We report that
PD-L1 is abundantly expressed in tumor-infiltrating leukocytes in human patients 
with both microsatellite instable and microsatellite stable colon cancer. About
60% CD11b+CD33+HLA-DR- MDSCs from peripheral blood of human colon cancer patients
are PD-L1+. PD-L1+ MDSCs are also significantly higher in tumor-bearing mice than
in tumor-free mice. Interestingly, the highest PD-L1+ MDSCs were observed in the 
tumor microenvironment in which 56-71% tumor-infiltrating MDSCs are PD-L1+in
vivo. In contrast, PD-L1+ MDSCs are significantly less in secondary lymphoid
organs and peripheral blood as compared to the tumor tissues, whereas bone marrow
MDSCs are essentially PD-L1- in tumor-bearing mice. IFNγ is highly expressed in
cells of the tumor tissues and IFNγ neutralization significantly decreased PD-L1+
MDSCs in the tumor microenvironment in vivo. However, IFNγ-activated pSTAT1 does 
not bind to the cd274 promoter in MDSCs. Instead, pSTAT1 activates expression of 
IRF1, IRF5, IRF7 and IRF8 in MDSCs, and only pSTAT1-activated IRF1 binds to a
unique IRF-binding sequence element in vitro and chromatin in vivo in the cd274
promoter to activate PD-L1 transcription. Our data determine that PD-L1 is highly
expressed in tumor-infiltrating MDSCs and in a lesser degree in lymphoid organs, 
and the pSTAT1-IRF1 axis regulates PD-L1 expression in MDSCs.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2016.1247135 
PMCID: PMC5214087
PMID: 28123883 


2. Surgery. 2017 May;161(5):1394-1404. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2016.11.009. Epub 2016
Dec 23.

Calpain inhibition decreases inflammatory protein expression in vessel walls in a
model of chronic myocardial ischemia.

Potz BA(1), Sabe AA(1), Elmadhun NY(1), Sabe SA(1), Braun BJV(1), Clements RT(1),
Usheva A(1), Sellke FW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Cardiovascular
Research Center, Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School of Brown
University, Providence, RI.
(2)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Cardiovascular
Research Center, Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School of Brown
University, Providence, RI. Electronic address: fsellke@lifespan.org.

BACKGROUND: Emerging data suggest a link between calpain activation and the
enhanced inflammatory response of the cardiovascular system. We hypothesize that 
calpain activation associates with altered inflammatory protein expression in
correlation with the proinflammatory profile of the myocardium. Our pig
hypercholesterolemic model with chronic myocardial ischemia was treated with
calpain inhibitors to establish their potential to improve cardiac function.
METHODS: Yorkshire swine, fed a high cholesterol diet for 4 weeks then underwent 
placement of an ameroid constrictor on the left circumflex artery. Two weeks
later, animals received either no drug (high-cholesterol control group, n = 8), a
low dose of calpain inhibitors (0.12 mg/kg, n = 9), or a high dose of calpain
inhibitors (0.25 mg/kg; n = 8). The high-cholesterol diet and calpain inhibitors 
were continued for 5 weeks, after which the pig was euthanized. The left
ventricular myocardial tissue (ischemic and nonischemic) was harvested and
analyzed for inflammatory protein expression. Data were statistically analyzed
via the Kruskal-Wallis and Dunn post hoc test.
RESULTS: Calpain inhibitor treatment coincides with increased expression of IKB-α
and decreased expression of macrophages, NFkB, IL-1, and tumor necrosis factor
(TNF)-α in the ischemic myocardial tissue as compared with the control group. An 
NFkB array revealed decreased expression of IRF5, JNK1/2, JNK2, CD18, NFkB p65,
c-Rel, Sharpin, TNF R1, TNF R2, and DR5 in the ischemic myocardium of the group
treated with a high dose of calpain inhibitors compared with the control.
CONCLUSION: Calpain activation in metabolic syndrome is a potential contributor
to cardiac dysfunction in metabolic disorders with ischemic background. We
suggest that calpain inhibition downregulates NFkB signaling in the vessel walls,
which might be useful for improving myocardial blood flow in ischemic conditions.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2016.11.009 
PMCID: PMC5404979
PMID: 28024857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Hum Immunol. 2017 Feb;78(2):153-165. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2016.10.017. Epub 2016
Oct 29.

Genomic and genetic studies of systemic sclerosis: A systematic review.

Chairta P(1), Nicolaou P(1), Christodoulou K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurogenetics Department, The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics,
Nicosia 2370, Cyprus; Cyprus School of Molecular Medicine, The Cyprus Institute
of Neurology and Genetics, Nicosia 2370, Cyprus.
(2)Neurogenetics Department, The Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics,
Nicosia 2370, Cyprus; Cyprus School of Molecular Medicine, The Cyprus Institute
of Neurology and Genetics, Nicosia 2370, Cyprus. Electronic address:
roula@cing.ac.cy.

Systemic sclerosis is an autoimmune rheumatic disease characterised by fibrosis, 
vasculopathy and inflammation. The exact aetiology of SSc remains unknown but
evidences show that various genetic factors may be involved. This review aimed to
assess HLA alleles/non-HLA polymorphisms, microsatellites and chromosomal
abnormalities that have thus far been associated with SSc. PubMed, Embase and
Scopus databases were searched up to July 29, 2015 using a combination of
search-terms. Articles retrieved were evaluated based on set exclusion and
inclusion criteria. A total of 150 publications passed the filters. HLA and
non-HLA studies showed that particular alleles in the HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQB1,
HLA-DQA1, HLA-DPB1 genes and variants in STAT4, IRF5 and CD247 are frequently
associated with SSc. Non-HLA genes analysis was performed using the PANTHER and
STRING10 databases. PANTHER classification revealed that inflammation mediated by
chemokine and cytokine, interleukin and integrin signalling pathways are among
the common extracted pathways associated with SSc. STRING10 analysis showed that 
NFKB1, CSF3R, STAT4, IFNG, PRL and ILs are the main "hubs" of interaction network
of the non-HLA genes associated with SSc. This study gathers data of valid
genetic factors associated with SSc and discusses the possible interactions of
implicated molecules.

Copyright © 2016 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2016.10.017 
PMID: 27984087  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. JCI Insight. 2016 Dec 8;1(20):e88689. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.88689.

IRF5 governs liver macrophage activation that promotes hepatic fibrosis in mice
and humans.

Alzaid F(1), Lagadec F(2), Albuquerque M(2), Ballaire R(1), Orliaguet L(1),
Hainault I(1), Blugeon C(3), Lemoine S(3), Lehuen A(4), Saliba DG(5), Udalova
IA(5), Paradis V(2), Foufelle F(1), Venteclef N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) UMRS 1138, 
Sorbonne Universités, UPMC Université Paris 06; Sorbonne Paris Cité, Université
Paris Descartes, Université Paris Diderot; and Centre de Recherche des
Cordeliers, Paris, France.
(2)INSERM UMRS 1149 and Department of Pathology Beaujon Hospital, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Clichy, France.
(3)École normale supérieure, PSL Research University, Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), INSERM, Institut de Biologie de l'École Normale
Supérieure (IBENS), Plateforme Génomique, Paris, France.
(4)INSERM UMRS 1016, Institut Cochin, Paris, France; CNRS UMR_S 8104, Paris,
France; and Laboratoire d'Excellence INFLAMEX, Université Paris Descartes,
Sorbonne Paris Cité, Paris, France.
(5)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom.

Hepatic fibrosis arises from inflammation in the liver initiated by resident
macrophage activation and massive leukocyte accumulation. Hepatic macrophages
hold a central position in maintaining homeostasis in the liver and in the
pathogenesis of acute and chronic liver injury linked to fibrogenesis. Interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has recently emerged as an important proinflammatory
transcription factor involved in macrophage activation under acute and chronic
inflammation. Here, we revealed that IRF5 is significantly induced in liver
macrophages from human subjects developing liver fibrosis from nonalcoholic fatty
liver disease or hepatitis C virus infection. Furthermore, IRF5 expression
positively correlated with clinical markers of liver damage, such as plasma
transaminase and bilirubin levels. Interestingly, mice lacking IRF5 in myeloid
cells (MKO) were protected from hepatic fibrosis induced by metabolic or toxic
stresses. Transcriptional reprogramming of macrophages lacking IRF5 was
characterized by immunosuppressive and antiapoptotic properties. Consequently,
IRF5 MKO mice respond to hepatocellular stress by promoting hepatocyte survival, 
leading to complete protection from hepatic fibrogenesis. Our findings reveal a
regulatory network, governed by IRF5, that mediates hepatocyte death and liver
fibrosis in mice and humans. Therefore, modulating IRF5 function may be an
attractive approach to experimental therapeutics in fibroinflammatory liver
disease.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.88689 
PMCID: PMC5135279
PMID: 27942586  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. World J Gastroenterol. 2016 Nov 14;22(42):9368-9377.

IRF5 regulates lung macrophages M2 polarization during severe acute pancreatitis 
in vitro.

Sun K(1), He SB(1), Qu JG(1), Dang SC(1), Chen JX(1), Gong AH(1), Xie R(1), Zhang
JX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kang Sun, Jian-Guo Qu, Sheng-Chun Dang, Ji-Xiang Chen, Rong Xie, Jian-Xin
Zhang, Department of General Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu
University, Zhenjiang 212001, Jiangsu Province, China.

AIM: To investigate the role of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) in
reversing polarization of lung macrophages during severe acute pancreatitis (SAP)
in vitro.
METHODS: A mouse SAP model was established by intraperitoneal (ip) injections of 
20 μg/kg body weight caerulein. Pathological changes in the lung were observed by
hematoxylin and eosin staining. Lung macrophages were isolated from
bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. The quantity and purity of lung macrophages were
detected by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and evaluated by real-time
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). They were treated with IL-4/IRF5 specific
siRNA (IRF5 siRNA) to reverse their polarization and were evaluated by detecting 
markers expression of M1/M2 using RT-PCR.
RESULTS: SAP associated acute lung injury (ALI) was induced successfully by ip
injections of caerulein, which was confirmed by histopathology. Lung macrophages 
expressed high levels of IRF5 as M1 phenotype during the early acute pancreatitis
stages. Reduction of IRF5 expression by IRF5 siRNA reversed the action of
macrophages from M1 to M2 phenotype in vitro. The expressions of M1 markers,
including IRF5 (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.013 ± 0.01 vs 0.054 ± 0.047, P <
0.01), TNF-α (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.0003 ± 0.0002 vs 0.019 ± 0.018, P <
0.001), iNOS (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.0003 ± 0.0002 vs 0.026 ± 0.018, P <
0.001) and IL-12 (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.000005 ± 0.00004 vs 0.024 ± 0.016,
P < 0.001), were decreased. In contrast, the expressions of M2 markers, including
IL-10 (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.060 ± 0.055 vs 0.0230 ± 0.018, P < 0.01) and 
Arg-1 (S + IRF5 siRNA vs S + PBS, 0.910 ± 0.788 vs 0.0036 ± 0.0025, P < 0.001),
were increased. IRF5 siRNA could reverse the lung macrophage polarization more
effectively than IL-4.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with IRF5 siRNA can reverse the pancreatitis-induced
activation of lung macrophages from M1 phenotype to M2 phenotype in SAP
associated with ALI.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v22.i42.9368 
PMCID: PMC5107700
PMID: 27895424  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest statement: The authors
declared that no conflict of interest exists in this study.


6. Front Immunol. 2016 Nov 10;7:497. eCollection 2016.

Molecular Mechanisms That Underlie the Dynamic Adaptation of Innate Monocyte
Memory to Varying Stimulant Strength of TLR Ligands.

Yuan R(1), Geng S(2), Li L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University, Blacksburg, VA, USA; Department of Biomedical Sciences and
Pathobiology, Virginia-Maryland College of Veterinary Medicine, Virginia
Polytechnic Institute and State University, Blacksburg, VA, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State
University , Blacksburg, VA , USA.

In adaptation to rising stimulant strength, innate monocytes can be dynamically
programed to preferentially express either pro- or anti-inflammatory mediators.
Such dynamic innate adaptation or programing may bear profound relevance in host 
health and disease. However, molecular mechanisms that govern innate adaptation
to varying strength of stimulants are not well understood. Using
lipopolysaccharide (LPS), the model stimulant of toll-like-receptor 4 (TLR4), we 
reported that the expressions of pro-inflammatory mediators are preferentially
sustained in monocytes adapted by lower doses of LPS, and suppressed/tolerized in
monocytes adapted by higher doses of LPS. Mechanistically, monocytes adapted by
super-low dose LPS exhibited higher levels of transcription factor, interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), and reduced levels of transcriptional modulator B
lymphocyte-induced maturation protein-1 (Blimp-1). Intriguingly, the inflammatory
monocyte adaptation by super-low dose LPS is dependent upon TRAM/TRIF but not
MyD88. Similar to LPS, we also observed biphasic inflammatory adaptation and
tolerance in monocytes challenged with varying dosages of TLR7 agonist. In sharp 
contrast, rising doses of TLR3 agonist preferentially caused inflammatory
adaptation without inducing tolerance. At the molecular level, the differential
regulation of IRF5 and Blimp-1 coincides with unique monocyte adaptation dynamics
by TLR4/7 and TLR3 agonists. Our study provides novel clue toward the
understanding of monocyte adaptation and memory toward distinct TLR ligands.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2016.00497 
PMCID: PMC5103159
PMID: 27891130 


7. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2017 Jan;60:59-64. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.11.038. Epub
2016 Nov 14.

Expression pattern analysis of IRF4 and its related genes revealed the functional
differentiation of IRF4 paralogues in teleost.

Ai K(1), Luo K(2), Li Y(2), Hu W(2), Gao W(2), Fang L(2), Tian G(2), Ruan G(2),
Xu Q(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Animal Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, 434020, China; State
Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of
Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430072, China.
(2)School of Animal Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, 434020, China.
(3)School of Animal Science, Yangtze University, Jingzhou, 434020, China; State
Key Laboratory of Freshwater Ecology and Biotechnology, Institute of
Hydrobiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430072, China.
Electronic address: xuqiaoqing@163.com.

In mammals, interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) plays an important role in the 
process of development and differentiation of B cells, T cells and dendritic
cells. It can regulate immune pathway through IRF5, MyD88, IL21, PGC1α, and NOD2.
In the present study, we investigated the expression pattern of IRF4 paralogues
and these related genes for the first time in teleosts. The results showed that
these genes were all expressed predominantly in known immune tissues while IRF5
was also relatively highly expressed in muscle. IRF4b, IL21, MyD88, IRF5 and NOD2
showed maternal expression in the oocyte and the higher expression of IRF4a, Mx
and PGC1α before hatching might be involved in the embryonic innate defense
system. Zebrafish embryonic fibroblast (ZF4) cells were infected with GCRV and
SVCV. During GCRV infection, the expression of Mx was significantly up-regulated 
from 3 h to 24 h, reaching the highest level at 12 h (101.5-fold over the
controls, P < 0.001). And the expression of IRF4a was significantly up-regulated 
from 3 h to 48 h, reaching the highest level at 12 h (13.75-fold over the
controls, P < 0.001). While the expression of IRF4b was only slightly
up-regulated at 12 h and 24 h (3.39-fold, 1.93-fold) above control levels,
respectively. Whereas the expression of Mx was significantly up-regulated during 
SVCV infection from 1 h to 48 h, reaching the highest level at 24 h (11.49-fold
over the controls, P < 0.001). IRF4a transcripts were significantly up-regulated 
from 6 h to 24 h, reaching the highest level at 24 h (41-fold over the controls, 
P < 0.01). IRF4b only showed a slightly up-regulation by SVCV at 24 h (3.2-fold
over the controls, P < 0.01). IRF4a and IRF4b displayed a distinct tissue
expression pattern, embryonic stages expression and inducible expression in vivo 
and in vitro, suggesting that IRF4 paralogues might play different roles in
immune system.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.11.038 
PMID: 27856326  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Immunol Lett. 2017 Jan;181:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2016.11.007. Epub 2016 Nov
10.

CREM variant rs17583959 conferred susceptibility to T1D risk in the Tunisian
families.

Zouidi F(1), Bouzid D(2), Fourati H(2), Fakhfakh R(2), Kammoun T(3), Hachicha
M(3), Penha-Gonçalves C(4), Masmoudi H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology Department, Habib Bourguiba Hospital, University of Sfax, Tunisie. 
Electronic address: zouidi_ferjeni@yahoo.fr.
(2)Immunology Department, Habib Bourguiba Hospital, University of Sfax, Tunisie.
(3)Pediatric Department, Hedi Chaker Hospital, Sfax, Tunisie.
(4)Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência, Oeiras, Portugal.

Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1D) is a chronic autoimmune disease caused by the
destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic β-cells by autoreactive T cells.
Studies in animal models, such as the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse reveal that 
this disease is under the control of several genes that encode molecules
implicated in regulation of transcription factors and in T cell activation. In
order to underline the role of the genes involved in this regulation pathways, we
investigated, using the Sequenom MassARRAY platform, 13 single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) belonging to CREM, IRF5, STAT4, and STAT5a/b genes in 59 T1D
Tunisian families. In the current study, we identified an association with
rs17583959 (allele G; Z score=2.27; p=0.02; Genotype GG: score=1.96; p=0.04) of
CREM gene. In LD analysis a strong LD between the 3 CREM variants (Block 1) was
detected; rs2384352 was in complete LD with rs1148247. When haplotypes were
constructed between CREM polymorphisms (rs1148247, rs17583959, rs2384352), AGA
haplotype (H2) was significantly over-transmitted from parents to affected
offspring (Z score=2.988; P=0.002) and may confer a risk for T1D disease.
Whereas, AAG haplotype (H5) (Z score=-2.000; p=0.045) was less transmitted than
expected to affected children suggesting its protective effect against T1D
pathology. No significant association in IRF5, STAT4, and STAT5a/b genes were
observed. In conclusion, this study shows an eventually involvement of CREM gene 
in the development of T1D pathology in Tunisian families. These facts are
consistent with a major role for transcription factor genes involved in the
immune pathways in the control of autoimmunity. Further researches of association
and functional analysis across populations are needed to confirm these findings.

Copyright © 2016 European Federation of Immunological Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2016.11.007 
PMID: 27840176  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. EBioMedicine. 2016 Dec;14:83-96. doi: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2016.10.041. Epub 2016 Oct 
29.

Reprogramming macrophage orientation by microRNA 146b targeting transcription
factor IRF5.

Peng L(1), Zhang H(1), Hao Y(1), Xu F(1), Yang J(1), Zhang R(1), Lu G(1), Zheng
Z(1), Cui M(1), Qi CF(2), Chen C(3), Wang J(1), Hu Y(1), Wang D(1), Pierce S(2), 
Li L(3), Xiong H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Immunology Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai,New York, NY 10029, United States.
(2)Laboratory of Immunogenetics, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, United States.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Center for Inflammation, Virginia Tech,
Blacksburg, VA 24061, United States.
(4)Department of Medicine, Immunology Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai,New York, NY 10029, United States; Institute of Immunology and
Molecular Medicine, Jining Medical College, Jining, Shangdong 272067, China.
Electronic address: Huabao.Xiong@mssm.edu.

The regulation of macrophage orientation pathological conditions is important but
still incompletely understood. Here, we show that IL-10 and Rag1 double knockout 
mice spontaneously develop colitis with dominant M1 macrophage phenotype,
suggesting that IL-10 regulates macrophage orientation in inflammation. We
demonstrate that IL-10 stimulation induced miR-146b expression, and that the
expression of miR-146b was impaired in IL-10 deficient macrophages. Our data show
that miR-146b targets IRF5, resulting in the regulation of macrophage activation.
Furthermore, miR-146b deficient mice developed intestinal inflammation with
enhanced M1 macrophage polarization. Finally, miR-146b mimic treatment
significantly suppresses M1 macrophage activation and ameliorates colitis
development in vivo. Collectively, the results suggest that IL-10 dependent
miR-146b plays an important role in the modulation of M1 macrophage orientation.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ebiom.2016.10.041 
PMCID: PMC5161420
PMID: 27825654  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Immunol Invest. 2017 Jan;46(1):97-107. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1225759. Epub
2016 Oct 31.

Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 Gene Polymorphisms in Iranian Women with
Unexplained Recurrent Pregnancy Loss.

Amiri Jahromi R(1), Nasiri M(1)(2), Jahromi AR(3).

Author information: 
(1)a Department of Biology , Islamic Azad University , Arsanjan Branch, Arsanjan 
, Iran.
(2)b Young Researchers and Elite Club , Islamic Azad University , Arsanjan
Branch, Arsanjan , Iran.
(3)c Departments of Obstetrics and Gynecology , Jahrom University of Medical
Sciences , Jahrom , Iran.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to examine the association of three functional IRF5
rs10954213, rs3757385, and rs41298401 polymorphisms with susceptibility to
unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss (RPL) among Iranian women from south of
Iran.
METHODS: 176 women with unexplained RPL and 173 healthy postmenopausal controls
were enrolled in this case-control study. Genotyping of the polymorphisms
rs10954213 and rs3757385 was carried out using touchdown tetra-primer
amplification refractory mutation system-polymerase chain reaction (T-ARMS PCR), 
and polymorphism rs41298401 was typed using PCR-restriction fragment length
polymorphism (PCR-RFLP).
RESULTS: Genotype frequencies were significantly different between RPL cases and 
controls regarding AG heterozygote genotype of rs10954213, GT genotype of
rs3757385, and GG genotype of rs41298401. In addition, allele variants (G for
rs10954213, T for rs3757385, and G for rs41298401) showed protective role against
RPL, while GG haplotype of two first variants was shown to be a susceptibility
factor for the disease.
CONCLUSION: These data provide the first evidence, to our knowledge, of the
protective role of the studied IRF5 gene polymorphisms against unexplained RPL
among Iranian women from south of Iran.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1225759 
PMID: 27798840  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Mucosal Immunol. 2017 May;10(3):716-726. doi: 10.1038/mi.2016.92. Epub 2016 Oct
19.

A critical role for IRF5 in regulating allergic airway inflammation.

Byrne AJ(1)(2), Weiss M(1), Mathie SA(2), Walker SA(2), Eames HL(1), Saliba D(1),
Lloyd CM(2), Udalova IA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(2)Inflammation, Repair & Development Section, National Heart & Lung Institute,
Imperial College London, London, UK.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a key transcription factor involved in
the control of the expression of proinflammatory cytokine and responses to
infection, but its role in regulating pulmonary immune responses to allergen is
unknown. We used genetic ablation, adenoviral vector-driven overexpression, and
adoptive transfer approaches to interrogate the role of IRF5 in pulmonary
immunity and during challenge with the aeroallergen, house dust mite. Global IRF5
deficiency resulted in impaired lung function and extracellular matrix (ECM)
deposition. IRF5 was also essential for effective responses to inhaled allergen, 
controlling airway hyperresponsiveness, mucus secretion, and eosinophilic
inflammation. Adoptive transfer of IRF5-deficient alveolar macrophages into the
wild-type pulmonary milieu was sufficient to drive airway hyperreactivity, at
baseline or following antigen challenge. These data identify IRF5-expressing
macrophages as a key component of the immune defense of the airways. Manipulation
of IRF5 activity in the lung could therefore be a viable strategy for the
redirection of pulmonary immune responses and, thus, the treatment of lung
disorders.

DOI: 10.1038/mi.2016.92 
PMCID: PMC5266556
PMID: 27759022  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Hypertension. 2016 Dec;68(6):1375-1384. Epub 2016 Oct 17.

Transcriptomic Analysis Reveals Novel Transcription Factors Associated With
Renin-Angiotensin-Aldosterone System in Human Atheroma.

Nehme A(1), Cerutti C(1), Zibara K(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the EA4173, Functional Genomics of Arterial Hypertension, UCBL-1, Lyon,
France (A.N., C.C.); and ER045, Laboratory of Stem Cells, DSST (A.N., K.Z.) and
Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences-I (K.Z.), Lebanese University, Beirut,
Lebanon.
(2)From the EA4173, Functional Genomics of Arterial Hypertension, UCBL-1, Lyon,
France (A.N., C.C.); and ER045, Laboratory of Stem Cells, DSST (A.N., K.Z.) and
Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences-I (K.Z.), Lebanese University, Beirut,
Lebanon. kzibara@ul.edu.lb.

Despite the well-known role of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) in
atheroma, its global local organization is poorly understood. In this study, we
used transcriptomic meta-analysis to reveal the local transcriptional
organization and regulation of 37 extended RAAS (extRAAS) genes in atheroma.
Expression analysis and hierarchical clustering were done on extRAAS genes in 32 
paired early and advanced atherosclerotic lesions. Contrary to receptor-coding
transcripts, multiple angiotensin-metabolizing enzymes showed higher expression
in advance, in comparison to early lesions. Interestingly, similar results were
obtained from GEO data sets containing human (n=839) and mouse (n=18)
atherosclerotic samples, but different from normal human (n=11) arterial tissues.
The expression and coordination patterns were then used to construct
transcriptional maps of extRAAS, displaying favored pathways in atheroma. Three
coexpression modules (M1, M2, and M3) with >80% reproducibility across human
atheroma data sets were identified. M1 and M3 contained angiotensin-metabolizing 
enzymes transcripts, whereas M2 contained proatherogenic receptor-coding
transcripts. Interestingly, M1 and M2 were negatively correlated. A total of 21
transcription factors with enriched binding sites in the promoters of coordinated
genes were extracted, among which IRF5, MAX, and ETV5 showed significant positive
correlations with M1, but negative correlations with M2. However, ETS1 and SMAD1 
transcripts were positively correlated to receptor-coding genes in M2. Despite
sharing some similarities in extRAAS organization with kidney and adipose,
atheroma showed specific correlations between extRAAS and transcription factors. 
In conclusion, our transcriptional map helps in designing more efficient
treatments for atherosclerosis. In addition, the identified transcription factors
provide a basis for the discovery of atheroma-specific modulators of extRAAS.

© 2016 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.116.08070 
PMID: 27754866  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Cell Rep. 2016 Aug 30;16(9):2442-55. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2016.07.060. Epub 2016
Aug 18.

IRF5 and IRF5 Disease-Risk Variants Increase Glycolysis and Human M1 Macrophage
Polarization by Regulating Proximal Signaling and Akt2 Activation.

Hedl M(1), Yan J(1), Abraham C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.
Electronic address: clara.abraham@yale.edu.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) regulates inflammatory M1 macrophage
polarization, and disease-associated IRF5 genetic variants regulate
pattern-recognition-receptor (PRR)-induced cytokines. PRR-stimulated macrophages 
and M1 macrophages exhibit enhanced glycolysis, a central mediator of
inflammation. We find that IRF5 is needed for PRR-enhanced glycolysis in human
macrophages and in mice in vivo. Upon stimulation of the PRR nucleotide binding
oligomerization domain containing 2 (NOD2) in human macrophages, IRF5 binds RIP2,
IRAK1, and TRAF6. IRF5, in turn, is required for optimal Akt2 activation, which
increases expression of glycolytic pathway genes and HIF1A as well as
pro-inflammatory cytokines and M1 polarization. Furthermore, pro-inflammatory
cytokines and glycolytic pathways co-regulate each other. Rs2004640/rs2280714
TT/TT IRF5 disease-risk-carrier cells demonstrate increased IRF5 expression and
increased PRR-induced Akt2 activation, glycolysis, pro-inflammatory cytokines,
and M1 polarization relative to GG/CC carrier macrophages. Our findings identify 
that IRF5 disease-associated polymorphisms regulate diverse immunological and
metabolic outcomes and provide further insight into mechanisms contributing to
the increasingly recognized important role for glycolysis in inflammation.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2016.07.060 
PMCID: PMC5165654
PMID: 27545875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Immunity. 2016 Aug 16;45(2):319-32. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2016.07.015. Epub 2016 
Aug 9.

Lyn Kinase Suppresses the Transcriptional Activity of IRF5 in the TLR-MyD88
Pathway to Restrain the Development of Autoimmunity.

Ban T(1), Sato GR(1), Nishiyama A(1), Akiyama A(1), Takasuna M(1), Umehara M(1), 
Suzuki S(2), Ichino M(1), Matsunaga S(3), Kimura A(4), Kimura Y(4), Yanai H(5),
Miyashita S(6), Kuromitsu J(6), Tsukahara K(6), Yoshimatsu K(6), Endo I(7),
Yamamoto T(8), Hirano H(4), Ryo A(3), Taniguchi T(5), Tamura T(9).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.
(2)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan; Department of Gastroenterological Surgery,
Yokohama City University Graduate School of Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.
(4)Advanced Medical Research Center, Yokohama City University, Yokohama 236-0004,
Japan.
(5)Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute of Industrial Science, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8505, Japan.
(6)Tsukuba Research Laboratories, Eisai Co., Ltd., Ibaraki 300-2635, Japan.
(7)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Yokohama City University Graduate
School of Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.
(8)Cell Signal Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate
University, Okinawa 904-0495, Japan.
(9)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan. Electronic address:
tamurat@yokohama-cu.ac.jp.

Interferon regulatory factor-5 (IRF5), a transcription factor critical for the
induction of innate immune responses, contributes to the pathogenesis of the
autoimmune disease systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) in humans and mice. Lyn, a 
Src family kinase, is also implicated in human SLE, and Lyn-deficient mice
develop an SLE-like disease. Here, we found that Lyn physically interacted with
IRF5 to inhibit ubiquitination and phosphorylation of IRF5 in the TLR-MyD88
pathway, thereby suppressing the transcriptional activity of IRF5 in a manner
independent of Lyn's kinase activity. Conversely, Lyn did not inhibit NF-κB
signaling, another major branch downstream of MyD88. Monoallelic deletion of Irf5
alleviated the hyperproduction of cytokines in TLR-stimulated Lyn(-/-) dendritic 
cells and the development of SLE-like symptoms in Lyn(-/-) mice. Our results
reveal a role for Lyn as a specific suppressor of the TLR-MyD88-IRF5 pathway and 
illustrate the importance of fine-tuning IRF5 activity for the maintenance of
immune homeostasis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2016.07.015 
PMID: 27521268  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Sep;14(3):2815-22. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5565. Epub 2016 Jul
27.

Expression of interferon regulatory factor 5 is regulated by the Sp1
transcription factor.

Shu J(1), Wang XH(1), Zhou LB(2), Jiang CM(1), Yang WX(1), Jin R(1), Wang LL(1), 
Zhou GP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The First Affiliated Hospital, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, P.R. China.
(2)2013 Clinical Class 7, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Nanjing Medical
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, P.R. China.

The transcription factor, interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), is important in 
the induction of type I interferon, proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines, and
is involved in autoimmune diseases and tumourigenesis. However, the mechanisms
underlying the transcriptional regulation of wild‑type IRF5 remain to be fully
elucidated. The present study was primarily designed to clarify whether
specificity protein 1 (Sp1) was involved in the regulation of IRF5. Initially,
the IRF5 promoter region was cloned and its promoter activity was examined using 
Hela and HEK 293 cells. Deletion analyses revealed that the region
spanning ‑179 to +62 was the minimal promoter of IRF5. Bioinformatics analyses
showed that this region contained three putative Sp1 binding sites, and
mutational analyses revealed that all the Sp1 sites contributed to
transcriptional activity. Secondly, the overexpression of Sp1 was found to
increase the activity of the IRF5 promoter and the mRNA level of IRF5, determined
using reporter gene assays and polymerase chain reaction analysis, respectively. 
By contrast, treatment with mithramycin and Sp1 small interfering RNA
significantly reduced the activity of the IRF5 promoter and the mRNA level of
IRF5. Finally, the results of an electrophoretic mobility shift assay and a
chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that Sp1 bound to the promoter
region of IRF5 in vitro and in vivo. These results suggested that the Sp1
transcription factor is the primary determinant for activating the basal
transcription of the IRF5.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5565 
PMID: 27484157  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Sci Rep. 2016 Aug 2;6:31002. doi: 10.1038/srep31002.

Specific detection of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5): A case of antibody
inequality.

Li D(1)(2), De S(1)(2)(3), Li D(1), Song S(1), Matta B(1), Barnes BJ(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Autoimmune and Musculoskeletal Diseases, Feinstein Institute for
Medical Research, North well Health, Manhasset, NY 11030, United States.
(2)Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, New Jersey Medical School-Cancer
Center, Newark, NJ 07103, United States.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry &Molecular Genetics, Rutgers
Biomedical and Health Sciences, Newark, NJ 07103, United States.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a member of the IRF family of
transcription factors. IRF5 was first identified and characterized as a
transcriptional regulator of type I interferon expression after virus infection. 
In addition to its critical role(s) in the regulation and development of host
immunity, subsequent studies revealed important roles for IRF5 in autoimmunity,
cancer, obesity, pain, cardiovascular disease, and metabolism. Based on these
important disease-related findings, a large number of commercial antibodies have 
become available to study the expression and function of IRF5. Here we validate a
number of these antibodies for the detection of IRF5 by immunoblot, flow
cytometry, and immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry using well-established 
positive and negative controls. Somewhat surprising, the majority of commercial
antibodies tested were unable to specifically recognize human or mouse IRF5. We
present data on antibodies that do specifically recognize human or mouse IRF5 in 
a particular application. These findings reiterate the importance of proper
controls and molecular weight standards for the analysis of protein expression.
Given that dysregulated IRF5 expression has been implicated in the pathogenesis
of numerous diseases, including autoimmune and cancer, results indicate that
caution should be used in the evaluation and interpretation of IRF5 expression
analysis.

DOI: 10.1038/srep31002 
PMCID: PMC4969615
PMID: 27481535  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Inflammation. 2016 Oct;39(5):1704-17. doi: 10.1007/s10753-016-0405-4.

Nanoparticle-Delivered IRF5 siRNA Facilitates M1 to M2 Transition, Reduces
Demyelination and Neurofilament Loss, and Promotes Functional Recovery After
Spinal Cord Injury in Mice.

Li J(1), Liu Y(2), Xu H(3), Fu Q(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Changhai Hospital Affiliated to the Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, 200433, China.
(2)Department of Spinal Surgery, The 107 Hospital of the People's Liberation
Army, Yantai, Shandong, 264000, China.
(3)Department of Orthopedics of Jinling Hospital, Nanjing University School of
Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210002, China.
(4)Department of Orthopedics, Changhai Hospital Affiliated to the Second Military
Medical University, Shanghai, 200433, China. johsonf1965@163.com.

Macrophage activation and persistent inflammation contribute to the pathogenesis 
of spinal cord injury (SCI), and different phenotypes of macrophages play diverse
roles in the pathological process of SCI. After SCI, there is an acute phase of
alternatively activated (M2) macrophage infiltration, followed by a long-lasting 
phase of classically activated (M1) macrophage accumulation in the wound. The
long-lasting predominance of M1 macrophages may derail healing and compromise
organ functions. Based on the previous findings that the transcription factor
interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) up-regulates genes associated with M1
macrophages, we attempted to examine the effect of silencing IRF5 on SCI
progression. IRF5 expression was assessed with Western blotting or
immunohistochemistry. Macrophage phenotypes were measured with flow cytometry or 
immunohistochemistry. M1- or M2-related cytokines were measured with a Luminex
assay kit. IRF5 siRNA was delivered into the macrophages infiltrated into the
wound of SCI mice through lipidoid nanoparticle. Locomotor functions were
measured with Basso Mouse Scale (BMS) scoring. Myelination was assessed with
luxol fast blue staining. Myelin binding protein, neurofilaments, synaptic
markers, and cytokines in the wound area were measured with Western blotting. The
Mann-Whitney U test was used for statistical analyses. After SCI, significant
elevation of IRF5 was evident on day 1, peaked on day 7, and gradually decreased 
thereafter. Similar dynamic change in the expression of CD86, a typical M1
marker, was observed. In contrast, there was a transient increase in the
expression of CD206, a typical M2 marker, which peaked 6 h after SCI, and
returned to baseline within 1 day. Macrophages isolated from the epicenter at day
3 after SCI were predominantly M1 phenotype, and a siRNA-mediated knockdown of
IRF5 resulted in a reduced expression of M1 macrophage markers and increased
expression of M2 macrophage markers. Nanoparticle-mediated delivery of IRF5 siRNA
to SCI mouse model resulted in a dramatic decrease in the number of M1
macrophages and a significant increase in the number of M2 macrophages in the
wound. This was associated with a robust inflammation resolution, attenuation of 
demyelination and neurofilament loss, and significant improvement of locomotor
function (p < 0.05). IRF5 may serve as a therapeutic target to promote post-SCI
recovery.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-016-0405-4 
PMID: 27435985  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2016 Aug;42(3):435-47. doi: 10.1016/j.rdc.2016.03.003.
Epub 2016 Jun 21.

Genetics in Sjögren Syndrome.

Reksten TR(1), Lessard CJ(2), Sivils KL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, 825 Northeast 13th Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA; Broegelmann 
Research Laboratory, Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen, The
Laboratory Building, Haukeland University Hospital, Jonas Lies vei 87, N-5021
Bergen, Norway.
(2)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, 825 Northeast 13th Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA; Department
of Pathology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 940 Stanton L. Young
Boulevard, MBSB 451, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.
(3)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, 825 Northeast 13th Street, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA; Department
of Pathology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 940 Stanton L. Young
Boulevard, MBSB 451, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA. Electronic address:
sivilsk@omrf.org.

The genes associated with Sjögren syndrome (SS) can be assigned to the NF-kB
pathway, the IFN signaling pathway, lymphocyte signaling, and antigen
presentation. The frequencies of risk variants show they are common with modest
genetic effects. The strongest genetic association outside the human leukocyte
antigen region is in IRF5, a gene relevant in the IFN signaling pathway and for
B cell differentiation. Although no association has been found with the NF-kB
gene itself, associations in TNFAIP3 and TNIP1 (both genome-wide significant),
VCAM1 and IRAK1BP (both suggestive), point to genetic explanations for
dysregulation of the NF-kB pathway in SS.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rdc.2016.03.003 
PMID: 27431346  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Neuroinflammation. 2016 Jul 11;13(1):182. doi: 10.1186/s12974-016-0644-1.

Transcriptome sequencing reveals that LPS-triggered transcriptional responses in 
established microglia BV2 cell lines are poorly representative of primary
microglia.

Das A(1), Kim SH(2), Arifuzzaman S(3), Yoon T(2), Chai JC(2), Lee YS(2), Park
KS(1), Jung KH(4), Chai YG(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Natural Science and Technology, Hanyang University, Ansan, 15588,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular and Life Sciences, Hanyang University, Ansan, 15588,
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Bionanotechnology, Hanyang University, Seoul, 04673, Republic of
Korea.
(4)Institute of Natural Science and Technology, Hanyang University, Ansan, 15588,
Republic of Korea. khjung2@gmail.com.
(5)Department of Molecular and Life Sciences, Hanyang University, Ansan, 15588,
Republic of Korea. ygchai@hanyang.ac.kr.
(6)Department of Bionanotechnology, Hanyang University, Seoul, 04673, Republic of
Korea. ygchai@hanyang.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: Microglia are resident myeloid cells in the CNS that are activated by
infection, neuronal injury, and inflammation. Established BV2 microglial cell
lines have been the primary in vitro models used to study neuroinflammation for
more than a decade because they reduce the requirement of continuously
maintaining cell preparations and animal experimentation models. However, doubt
has recently been raised regarding the value of BV2 cell lines as a model system.
METHODS: We used triplicate RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to investigate the molecular
signature of primary and BV2 microglial cell lines using two transcriptomic
techniques: global transcriptomic biological triplicate RNA-seq and quantitative 
real-time PCR. We analyzed differentially expressed genes (DEGs) to identify
transcription factor (TF) motifs (-950 to +50 bp of the 5' upstream promoters)
and epigenetic mechanisms.
RESULTS: Sequencing assessment and quality evaluation revealed that primary
microglia have a distinct transcriptomic signature and express a unique cluster
of transcripts in response to lipopolysaccharide. This microglial signature was
not observed in BV2 microglial cell lines. Importantly, we observed that
previously unidentified TFs (i.e., IRF2, IRF5, IRF8, STAT1, STAT2, and STAT5A)
and the epigenetic regulators KDM1A, NSD3, and SETDB2 were significantly and
selectively expressed in primary microglia (PM). Although transcriptomic
alterations known to occur in BV2 microglial cell lines were identified in PM, we
also observed several novel transcriptomic alterations in PM that are not
frequently observed in BV2 microglial cell lines.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these unprecedented findings demonstrate that
established BV2 microglial cell lines are probably a poor representation of PM,
and we establish a resource for future studies of neuroinflammation.

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-016-0644-1 
PMCID: PMC4940985
PMID: 27400875  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Jul;32(7):865-9.

[Endogenous IFN-β maintains M1 polarization status and inhibits proliferation and
invasion of hepatocellular carcinoma cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie C(1), Guo B(2), Liu C(2), Lin Y(2), Wu B(2), Wang Q(2), Li Z(2), Tu Z(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ministry-of-Education Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical Diagnostics,
College of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016;
Department of Clinical Laboratory, Bishan County People's Hospital, Chongqing
402760, China.
(2)Ministry-of-Education Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical Diagnostics,
College of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016,
China.
(3)Ministry-of-Education Key Laboratory of Laboratory Medical Diagnostics,
College of Laboratory Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016,
China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: tuzhiguang@aliyun.com.

Objective To investigate the effect of endogenous interferon β (IFN-β) on the
polarization of M1 macrophages as well as the proliferation and invasion
activities of hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HCCs) mediated by M1 macrophages.
Methods U937-M1 macrophages derived from human monocytic tumor cells U937 was
established and the cell phenotypes were identified by real-time quantitative
PCR, ELISA and flow cytometry. After IFN-β gene was knocked down with siRNA or
IFN-β was neutralized with IFN-β monoantibody in U937-M1 macrophages, the change 
of M1/M2 phenotype was again analyzed by the above methods. The expressions of
interferon regulatory factor 1 (IRF1) and IRF5 were detected by real-time
quantitative PCR and Western blotting. The proliferation and invasion activities 
of HCCs, which were cultured with conditioned medium (CM) collected from
different macrophage groups, were analyzed by CCK-8 assay and Transwell(TM)
experiments, respectively. Results U937-M1 macrophages showed higher expressions 
of interleukin 12p35 (IL-12p35), interleukin 12p40 (IL-12p40), interleukin 12p70 
(IL-12p70), interleukin 23p19 (IL-23p19), interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis
factor α (TNF-α) and CD86 than U937-M0 did. But both U937-M0 macrophages and
U937-M1 macrophages showed low expression of CD206. However, compared with the
U937-M1 macrophages, the IFN-β-blocked U937-M1 macrophages presented decreased
expressions of the above M1 macrophages-associated markers, but increased
expressions of M2 macrophages-associated markers IL-10 and CD206, as well as
lower expressions of IRF1 and IRF5. The inhibited proliferation/invasion
activities of HCCs mediated by U937-M1 macrophages were reversed by IFN-β-blocked
U937-M1 macrophages. Conclusion Blocking endogenous IFN-β could inhibit the
U937-M1 polarization status and U937-M1 macrophages-mediated anti-tumor activity 
of HCCs. IFN-β might be involved in modulating the expressions of IRF1 and IRF5
as well as maintaining the M1 polarization status and its function.


PMID: 27363262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. BMC Vet Res. 2016 Jun 27;12(1):127. doi: 10.1186/s12917-016-0750-4.

Characterization of common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.) interferon regulatory factor
5 (IRF5) and its expression in response to viral and bacterial challenges.

Zhu Y(1), Qi C(1), Shan S(1), Zhang F(1), Li H(1), An L(2), Yang G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology, College of
Life Science, Shandong Normal University, No. 88 East Wenhua Road, Jinan, 250014,
People's Republic of China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology, College of
Life Science, Shandong Normal University, No. 88 East Wenhua Road, Jinan, 250014,
People's Republic of China. an.liguo58@gmail.com.
(3)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Resistance Biology, College of
Life Science, Shandong Normal University, No. 88 East Wenhua Road, Jinan, 250014,
People's Republic of China. yanggw@sdnu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Common carp (Cyprinus carpio L.), one of the most economically
valuable commercial farming fish species in China, is often infected by a variety
of viruses. As the first line of defence against microbial pathogens, the innate 
immune system plays a crucial role in teleost fish, which are lower vertebrates. 
Interferon (IFN) regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a key molecule in antiviral
immunity that regulating the expression of IFN and other pro-inflammatory
cytokines. It is necessary to gain more insight into the common carp IFN system
and the function of fish IRF5 in the antiviral and antibacterial response.
RESULTS: In the present study, we characterized the cDNA and genomic sequence of 
the IRF5 gene in common carp, and analysed tissue distribution and expression
profile of this gene in response to polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid (poly I:C)
and lipopolysaccharides (LPS) treatment. The common carp IRF5 (ccIRF5) gene is
5790 bp in length and is composed of 9 exons and 8 introns. The open reading
frame (ORF) of ccIRF5 is 1554 bp, and encodes 517 amino acid protein. The
putative ccIRF5 protein shares identity (65.4-90.0 %) with other fish IRF5s and
contains a DNA binding domain (DBD), a middle region (MR), an IRF-associated
domain (IAD), a virus activated domain (VAD) and two nuclear localization signals
(NLSs) similar to those found in vertebrate IRF5. Phylogenetic analysis clustered
ccIRF5 into the IRF5 subfamily with other vertebrate IRF5 and IRF6 genes.
Real-time PCR analysis revealed that ccIRF5 mRNA was expressed in all examined
tissues of healthy carps, with high levels observed in the gills and the brain.
After poly I:C challenge, expression levels of ccIRF5, tumour-necrosis factor α
(ccTNFα) and two IFN stimulated genes [ISGs (ccISG5 and ccPKR)] were up-regulated
in seven immune-related tissues (liver, spleen, head kidney, foregut, hindgut,
skin and gills). Furthermore, all four genes were up-regulated in vitro upon poly
I:C and LPS challenges.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that IRF5 might play an important role in
regulating the antiviral and antibacterial response in fish. These results could 
provide a clue for preventing common carp infection by pathogenic microorganisms 
present in the aquatic environment.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-016-0750-4 
PMCID: PMC4924235
PMID: 27350041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Immunobiology. 2016 Nov;221(11):1237-46. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2016.06.010. Epub
2016 Jun 14.

The impact of surface chemistry modification on macrophage polarisation.

Rostam HM(1), Singh S(1), Salazar F(1), Magennis P(2), Hook A(2), Singh T(2),
Vrana NE(3), Alexander MR(2), Ghaemmaghami AM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Immunology and Tissue Modelling Group, Division of Immunology, School of Life 
Science, University of Nottingham, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, Queen's
Medical Centre, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK.
(2)Interface and Surface Analysis Centre, School of Pharmacy, University of
Nottingham, UK.
(3)Protip Medical, 8 Place de l'Hôpital, 67000 Strasbourg, France; INSERM UMR
1121, 11 rue Humann, 67085 Strasbourg, France.
(4)Immunology and Tissue Modelling Group, Division of Immunology, School of Life 
Science, University of Nottingham, Faculty of Medicine & Health Sciences, Queen's
Medical Centre, Nottingham, NG7 2UH, UK. Electronic address:
amir.ghaemmaghami@nottingham.ac.uk.

Macrophages are innate immune cells that have a central role in combating
infection and maintaining tissue homeostasis. They exhibit remarkable plasticity 
in response to environmental cues. At either end of a broad activation spectrum
are pro-inflammatory (M1) and anti-inflammatory (M2) macrophages with distinct
functional and phenotypical characteristics. Macrophages also play a crucial role
in orchestrating immune responses to biomaterials used in the fabrication of
implantable devices and drug delivery systems. To assess the impact of different 
surface chemistries on macrophage polarisation, human monocytes were cultured for
6 days on untreated hydrophobic polystyrene (PS) and hydrophilic O2 plasma-etched
polystyrene (O2-PS40) surfaces. Our data clearly show that monocytes cultured on 
the hydrophilic O2-PS40 surface are polarised towards an M1-like phenotype, as
evidenced by significantly higher expression of the pro-inflammatory
transcription factors STAT1 and IRF5. By comparison, monocytes cultured on the
hydrophobic PS surface exhibited an M2-like phenotype with high expression of
mannose receptor (MR) and production of the anti-inflammatory cytokines IL-10 and
CCL18. While the molecular basis of such different patterns of cell
differentiation is yet to be fully elucidated, we hypothesise that it is due to
the adsorption of different biomolecules on these surface chemistries. Indeed our
surface characterisation data show quantitative and qualitative differences
between the protein layers on the O2-PS40 surface compared to PS surface which
could be responsible for the observed differential macrophage polarisation on
each surface.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier GmbH.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2016.06.010 
PMID: 27349596  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Cancer Med. 2016 Aug;5(8):1962-72. doi: 10.1002/cam4.719. Epub 2016 Jun 18.

Transcriptome profiling reveals novel gene expression signatures and regulating
transcription factors of TGFβ-induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition.

Du L(1), Yamamoto S(1), Burnette BL(1), Huang D(1), Gao K(2), Jamshidi N(1), Kuo 
MD(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los
Angeles, California, 90095.
(2)Department of Neurology, UCLA, Los Angeles, California, 90095.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, University of California-Los Angeles, Los
Angeles, California, 90095.

Dysregulated epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) in cancer cells endows
invasive and metastatic properties upon cancer cells that favor successful
colonization of distal target organs and therefore play a critical role in
transforming early-stage carcinomas into invasive malignancies. EMT has also been
associated with tumor recurrence and drug resistance and cancer stem cell
initiation. Therefore, better understanding of the mechanisms behind EMT could
ultimately contribute to the development of novel prognostic approaches and
individualized therapies that specifically target EMT processes. As an effort to 
characterize the central transcriptome changes during EMT, we have developed a
Transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta-based in vitro EMT model and used it to
profile EMT-related gene transcriptional changes in two different cell lines, a
non-small cell lung cancer cell line H358, and a breast cell line MCF10a. After
7 days of TGF-beta/Oncostatin M (OSM) treatment, changes in cell morphology to a 
mesenchymal phenotype were observed as well as concordant EMT-associated changes 
in mRNA and protein expression. Further, increased motility was noted and flow
cytometry confirmed enrichment in cancer stem cell-like populations.
Microarray-based differential expression analysis identified an EMT-associated
gene expression signature which was confirmed by RT-qPCR and which significantly 
overlapped with a previously published EMT core signature. Finally, two novel
EMT-regulating transcription factors, IRF5 and LMCD1, were identified and
independently validated.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.719 
PMCID: PMC4971924
PMID: 27318801  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Aug;14(2):1091-8. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5352. Epub 2016 May 27.

Mangiferin inhibits macrophage classical activation via downregulating interferon
regulatory factor 5 expression.

Wei Z(1), Yan L(2), Chen Y(3), Bao C(4), Deng J(5), Deng J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Guangxi Scientific Experimental Center of Traditional Chinese Medicine,
Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi 530001, P.R. China.
(2)Laboratory of Basis and Application Research of Zhuang Medicine Formulas,
Zhuang Medicine College, Guangxi University of Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi
530001, P.R. China.
(3)Guangxi Key Laboratory of Pharmacodynamics Studies of Traditional Chinese
Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi 530001, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Pharmacy, Ruikang Affiliated Hospital, Guangxi University of
Chinese Medicine, Nanning, Guangxi 530012, P.R. China.
(5)Dana‑Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Mangiferin is a natural polyphenol and the predominant effective component of
Mangifera indica Linn. leaves. For hundreds of years, Mangifera indica Linn. leaf
has been used as an ingredient in numerous traditional Chinese medicine
preparations for the treatment of bronchitis. However, the pharmacological
mechanism of mangiferin in the treatment of bronchitis remains to be elucidated. 
Macrophage classical activation is important role in the process of bronchial
airway inflammation, and interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has been
identified as a key regulatory factor for macrophage classical activation. The
present study used the THP‑1 human monocyte cell line to investigate whether
mangiferin inhibits macrophage classical activation via suppressing IRF5
expression in vitro. THP‑1 cells were differentiated to macrophages by phorbol
12‑myristate 13‑acetate. Macrophages were polarized to M1 macrophages following
stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/interferon‑γ (IFN‑γ). Flow cytometric
analysis was conducted to detect the M1 macrophages. Reverse
transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to investigate
cellular IRF5 gene expression. Levels of proinflammatory cytokines and IRF5 were 
assessed following cell culture and cellular homogenization using enzyme‑linked
immunosorbent assay. IRF5 protein and nuclei co‑localization was performed in
macrophages with laser scanning confocal microscope immunofluorescence analysis. 
The results of the present study demonstrated that mangiferin significantly
inhibits LPS/IFN‑γ stimulation‑induced classical activation of macrophages
in vitro and markedly decreases proinflammatory cytokine release. In addition,
cellular IRF5 expression was markedly downregulated. These results suggest that
the inhibitory effect of mangiferin on classical activation of macrophages may be
exerted via downregulation of cellular IRF5 expression levels.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5352 
PMCID: PMC4940072
PMID: 27277156  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Cell Rep. 2016 May 31;15(9):1901-9. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2016.04.080. Epub 2016 
May 19.

Striking Immune Phenotypes in Gene-Targeted Mice Are Driven by a Copy-Number
Variant Originating from a Commercially Available C57BL/6 Strain.

Mahajan VS(1), Demissie E(1), Mattoo H(1), Viswanadham V(1), Varki A(2), Morris
R(1), Pillai S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, 400 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(3)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, 400 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA. Electronic address: pillai@helix.mgh.harvard.edu.

We describe a homozygous copy-number variant that disrupts the function of Dock2 
in a commercially available C57BL/6 mouse strain that is widely used for
backcrossing. This Dock2 allele was presumed to have spontaneously arisen in a
colony of Irf5 knockout mice. We discovered that this allele has actually been
inadvertently backcrossed into multiple mutant mouse lines, including two
engineered to be deficient in Siae and Cmah. This particular commercially
obtained subline of C57BL/6 mice also exhibits several striking immune phenotypes
that have been previously described in the context of Dock2 deficiency.
Inadvertent backcrossing of a number of gene-targeted mice into this background
has complicated the interpretation of several immunological studies. In light of 
these findings, published studies involving immune or hematopoietic phenotypes in
which these C57BL/6 mice have been used as controls, as experimental animals, or 
for backcrossing will need to be reinterpreted.

Copyright © 2016 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2016.04.080 
PMCID: PMC4892502
PMID: 27210752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Int J Mol Med. 2016 Jul;38(1):148-60. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2016.2583. Epub 2016 May 
10.

Effects of IRF1 and IFN-β interaction on the M1 polarization of macrophages and
its antitumor function.

Xie C(1), Liu C(1), Wu B(1), Lin Y(1), Ma T(1), Xiong H(1), Wang Q(1), Li Z(1),
Ma C(1), Tu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Diagnostic Medicine Designated by the Chinese Ministry of
Education, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400016, P.R. China.

Macrophages that differentiate from precursor monocytes can be polarized into a
classically activated (M1) or alternatively activated (M2) status depending on
different stimuli. Generally, interferon (IFN)-γ and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) are
considered the classical stimuli with which to establish M1 polarization. IFN
regulatory factor (IRF)1 and IFN-β are two crucial molecules involved in IFN-γ-
and LPS-initialed signaling. However, the association between IRF1 and IFN-β in
the context of the M1 polarization of macrophages is not yet fully understood. In
this study, we demonstrate that U937-derived macrophages, in response to IFN-γ
and LPS stimulation, readily acquire an M1 status, indicated by the increased
expression of interleukin (IL)-12, IL-6, IL-23, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α and
the M1-specific cell surface antigen, CD86, and the decreased expression of the
M2-specific mannose receptor, CD206. However, the knockdown of IRF1 in
U937-derived macrophages led to an impaired M1 status, as indicated by the
decreased expression of the above-mentioned M1 markers, and the increased
expression of the M2 markers, CD206 and IL-10. A similar phenomenon was observed 
in the M1 macrophages in which IFN-β was inhibited. Furthermore, we demonstrated 
that IRF1 and IFN-β may interact with each other in the IFN-γ- and LPS-initiated 
signaling pathway, and contribute to the IRF5 regulation of M1 macrophages. In
addition, the conditioned medium collected from the M1 macrophages in which IRF1 
or IFN-β were inhibited, exerted pro-tumor effects on the HepG2 and SMMC-7721
cells, as indicated by an increase in proliferation, the inhibition of apoptosis 
and an enhanced invasion capability. The findings of our study suggest that the
interactions of IRF1, IFN-β and IRF5 are involved in the M1 polarization of
macrophages and have antitumor functions. These data may provide a novel
antitumor strategy for targeted cancer therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2016.2583 
PMCID: PMC4899022
PMID: 27176664  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Gac Med Mex. 2016 Mar-Apr;152(2):218-27.

[Genetics and genomics in rheumatoid arthritis (RA): An update].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez-Elías AK(1)(2), Maldonado-Murillo K(2)(3), López-Mendoza LF(2)(3),
Ramírez-Bello J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Posgrado en Biología Experimental, UAM-I, Hospital Juárez de México, SSA,
Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Licenciatura en Biología, Facultad de Estudios Superiores Zaragoza, UNAM,
Hospital Juárez de México, SSA, Ciudad de México, México.
(3)Laboratorio de Medicina Genómica, Unidad de Investigación, Hospital Juárez de 
México, SSA, Ciudad de México, México.

Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease that affects
approximately 0.5-1% of the general population and leads to chronic synovial
inflammation, destruction of cartilage and bone, and disability. The heritability
of rheumatoid arthritis has been estimated to be about 60%, while the
contribution of HLA to heritability has been estimated to be 11-37%. Other genes,
such as PTPN22, STAT4, CTLA4, TRAF1, PADI4, IRF5, FCRL3, TNFIP3, TNF-α, miRNAs,
CD28, CD40, TYK2, etc., have been associated with susceptibility, severity,
activity, and treatment response of rheumatoid arthritis. The aim of this review 
is to describe the role of gene variants located in immune system genes
associated with susceptibility to rheumatoid arthritis.


PMID: 27160622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Rheumatol. 2016 Jul;43(7):1376-9. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.160045. Epub 2016 May 1.

Analysis of Systemic Sclerosis-associated Genes in a Turkish Population.

Carmona FD(1), Onat AM(2), Fernández-Aranguren T(2), Serrano-Fernández A(2),
Robledo G(2), Direskeneli H(2), Sawalha AH(2), Yavuz S(2), Martín J(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC,
PTS Granada, Granada, Spain; Department of Rheumatology, University of Gaziantep,
Gaziantep; Division of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine;
Department of Rheumatology, Istanbul Bilim University, Istanbul, Turkey; Division
of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan; Center 
for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, USA.F.D. Carmona, PhD, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina
"López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; A.M. Onat, MD, Department of
Rheumatology, University of Gaziantep; T. Fernández-Aranguren, BSc, Instituto de 
Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; A.
Serrano-Fernández, BSc, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra,"
IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; G. Robledo, BSc, Instituto de Parasitología y
Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; H. Direskeneli, MD, Division 
of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine; A.H. Sawalha, MD,
Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Michigan, and the Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics,
University of Michigan; S. Yavuz, MD, Department of Rheumatology, Istanbul Bilim 
University; J. Martín, MD, PhD, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina
"López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada. dcarmona@ipb.csic.es.
(2)From the Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC,
PTS Granada, Granada, Spain; Department of Rheumatology, University of Gaziantep,
Gaziantep; Division of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine;
Department of Rheumatology, Istanbul Bilim University, Istanbul, Turkey; Division
of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan; Center 
for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, USA.F.D. Carmona, PhD, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina
"López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; A.M. Onat, MD, Department of
Rheumatology, University of Gaziantep; T. Fernández-Aranguren, BSc, Instituto de 
Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; A.
Serrano-Fernández, BSc, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina "López-Neyra,"
IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; G. Robledo, BSc, Instituto de Parasitología y
Biomedicina "López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada; H. Direskeneli, MD, Division 
of Rheumatology, Marmara University, School of Medicine; A.H. Sawalha, MD,
Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of
Michigan, and the Center for Computational Medicine and Bioinformatics,
University of Michigan; S. Yavuz, MD, Department of Rheumatology, Istanbul Bilim 
University; J. Martín, MD, PhD, Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina
"López-Neyra," IPBLN-CSIC, PTS Granada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the genetic background of systemic sclerosis (SSc) in the 
Turkish population.
METHODS: There were 354 cases and 718 unaffected controls from Turkey genotyped
for the most relevant SSc genetic markers (IRF5-rs10488631, STAT4-rs3821236,
CD247-rs2056626, DNASE1L3-rs35677470, IL12A-rs77583790, and ATG5-rs9373839).
Association tests were conducted to identify possible associations.
RESULTS: Except for ATG5, all the analyzed genes showed either significant
associations (IRF5: p = 1.32E-05, OR 1.76; CD247: p = 2.20E-03, OR 0.75) or
trends of association (STAT4: p = 0.066, OR 1.21; IL12A: p = 0.079, OR 4.07;
DNASE1L3: p = 0.097, OR 1.41) with the overall disease or with specific
phenotypes.
CONCLUSION: The genetic component of SSc seems to be similar between Turks and
Europeans.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.160045 
PMID: 27134258  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Int J Cancer. 2016 Sep 15;139(6):1350-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.30159. Epub 2016 May
17.

Growing tumors induce a local STING dependent Type I IFN response in dendritic
cells.

Andzinski L(1), Spanier J(2), Kasnitz N(1), Kröger A(3)(4), Jin L(5), Brinkmann
MM(6)(7), Kalinke U(2), Weiss S(1)(8), Jablonska J(1)(9), Lienenklaus
S(1)(2)(10).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig,
Germany.
(2)Institute for Experimental Infection Research, Twincore, Centre for
Experimental and Clinical Infection Research, a Joint Venture between the
Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, Braunschweig, and the Hannover Medical
School, Germany, Hannover.
(3)Innate Immunity and Infection, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research,
Braunschweig, Germany.
(4)Institute of Medical Microbiology, Otto-von-Guericke-University, Magdeburg,
Germany.
(5)Center for Immunology and Microbial Disease, Albany Medical College, Albany,
NY.
(6)Viral Immune Modulation, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research,
Braunschweig, Germany.
(7)Institute of Virology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(8)Institute of Immunology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.
(9)Translational Oncology, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University
Hospital, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(10)Institute for Laboratory Animal Science, Hannover Medical School, Hannover,
Germany.

The importance of endogenous Type I IFNs in cancer immune surveillance is well
established by now. Their role in polarization of tumor-associated neutrophilic
granulocytes into anti-tumor effector cells has been recently demonstrated. Yet, 
the cellular source of Type I IFNs as well as the mode of induction is not
clearly defined. Here, we demonstrate that IFN-β is induced by growing murine
tumors. Induction is mainly mediated via STING-dependent signaling pathways,
suggesting tumor derived DNA as trigger. Transcription factors IRF3 and IRF5 were
activated under these conditions which is consistent with tumor infiltrating
dendritic cells (DCs) being the major cellular source of IFN-β at the tumor site.
Besides DCs, tumor cells themselves are induced to contribute to the production
of IFN-β. Taken together, our data provide further information on immune
surveillance by Type I IFNs and suggest novel potent cellular targets for future 
cancer therapy.

© 2016 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.30159 
PMID: 27116225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Pharmacol Ther. 2016 Jul;163:82-93. doi: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2016.04.001. Epub
2016 Apr 18.

Antidepressant therapies inhibit inflammation and microglial M1-polarization.

Kalkman HO(1), Feuerbach D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, NIBR, Fabrikstrasse 22-3.001.02, Basel 4002,
Switzerland. Electronic address: hans.kalkman@bluewin.ch.
(2)Neuroscience Research, NIBR, Fabrikstrasse 22-3.001.02, Basel 4002,
Switzerland.

Macrophages and their counterparts in the central nervous system, the microglia, 
detect and subsequently clear microbial pathogens and injured tissue. These
phagocytic cells alter and adapt their phenotype depending on their prime
activity, i.e., whether they participate in acute defence against pathogenic
organisms ('M1'-phenotype) or in clearing damaged tissues and performing repair
activities ('M2'-phenotype). Stimulation of pattern recognition receptors by
viruses (vaccines), bacterial membrane components (e.g., LPS), alcohol, or
long-chain saturated fatty acids promotes M1-polarization. Vaccine or LPS
administration to healthy human subjects can result in sickness symptoms and low 
mood. Alcohol abuse and abdominal obesity are recognized as risk factors for
depression. In the M1-polarized form, microglia and macrophages generate reactive
oxygen and nitrogen radicals to eradicate microbial pathogens. Inadvertently,
also tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) may become oxidized. This is an irreversible
reaction that generates neopterin, a recognized biomarker for depression. BH4 is 
a critical cofactor for the synthesis of dopamine, noradrenaline, and serotonin, 
and its loss could explain some of the symptoms of depression. Based on these
aspects, the suppression of M1-polarization would limit the inadvertent
catabolism of BH4. In the current review, we evaluate the evidence that
antidepressant treatments (monoamine reuptake inhibitors, PDE4 inhibitors,
lithium, valproate, agomelatine, tianeptine, electroconvulsive shock, and vagus
nerve stimulation) inhibit LPS-induced microglia/macrophage M1-polarization.
Consequently, we propose that supplementation with BH4 could limit the reduction 
in central monoamine synthesis and might represent an effective treatment for
depressed mood.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2016.04.001 
PMID: 27101921  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 19;11(4):e0153316. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153316.
eCollection 2016.

A Combination of CD28 (rs1980422) and IRF5 (rs10488631) Polymorphisms Is
Associated with Seropositivity in Rheumatoid Arthritis: A Case Control Study.

Vernerova L(1), Spoutil F(2)(3), Vlcek M(1), Krskova K(1), Penesova A(1), Meskova
M(1), Marko A(1), Raslova K(4), Vohnout B(4), Rovensky J(5), Killinger Z(6),
Jochmanova I(7), Lazurova I(7), Steiner G(8), Smolen J(8), Imrich R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Clinical and Translational Research, Biomedical Centre, Slovak
Academy of Sciences, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(2)Institute of Molecular Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech
Republic.
(3)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Czech Academy of Sciences, Prague, Czech
Republic.
(4)Slovak Medical University, Bratislava, Slovakia.
(5)National Institute of Rheumatic Diseases, Piešťany, Slovakia.
(6)5th Department of Internal Medicine, Medical Faculty of Comenius University,
Bratislava, Slovakia.
(7)1st Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Pavol Jozef Šafárik 
University in Košice, Košice, Slovakia.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine III, Division of Rheumatology, Medical
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to analyse genetic architecture of RA by
utilizing multiparametric statistical methods such as linear discriminant
analysis (LDA) and redundancy analysis (RDA).
METHODS: A total of 1393 volunteers, 499 patients with RA and 894 healthy
controls were included in the study. The presence of shared epitope (SE) in
HLA-DRB1 and 11 SNPs (PTPN22 C/T (rs2476601), STAT4 G/T (rs7574865), CTLA4 A/G
(rs3087243), TRAF1/C5 A/G (rs3761847), IRF5 T/C (rs10488631), TNFAIP3 C/T
(rs5029937), AFF3 A/T (rs11676922), PADI4 C/T (rs2240340), CD28 T/C (rs1980422), 
CSK G/A (rs34933034) and FCGR3A A/C (rs396991), rheumatoid factor (RF),
anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA) and clinical status was analysed
using the LDA and RDA.
RESULTS: HLA-DRB1, PTPN22, STAT4, IRF5 and PADI4 significantly discriminated
between RA patients and healthy controls in LDA. The correlation between RA
diagnosis and the explanatory variables in the model was 0.328 (Trace = 0.107; F 
= 13.715; P = 0.0002). The risk variants of IRF5 and CD28 genes were found to be 
common determinants for seropositivity in RDA, while positivity of RF alone was
associated with the CTLA4 risk variant in heterozygous form. The correlation
between serologic status and genetic determinants on the 1st ordinal axis was
0.468, and 0.145 on the 2nd one (Trace = 0.179; F = 6.135; P = 0.001). The risk
alleles in AFF3 gene together with the presence of ACPA were associated with
higher clinical severity of RA.
CONCLUSIONS: The association among multiple risk variants related to T cell
receptor signalling with seropositivity may play an important role in distinct
clinical phenotypes of RA. Our study demonstrates that multiparametric analyses
represent a powerful tool for investigation of mutual relationships of potential 
risk factors in complex diseases such as RA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0153316 
PMCID: PMC4836711
PMID: 27092776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cell Host Microbe. 2016 May 11;19(5):720-30. doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2016.03.010.
Epub 2016 Apr 5.

A Mouse Model of Zika Virus Pathogenesis.

Lazear HM(1), Govero J(2), Smith AM(2), Platt DJ(2), Fernandez E(2), Miner JJ(2),
Diamond MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO 63110, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
MO 63110, USA; Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA; Department of Pathology & Immunology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA; The Center
for Human Immunology and Immunotherapy Programs, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. Electronic address: diamond@borcim.wustl.edu.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2016 May 11;19(5):566-7.
    Neurotox Res. 2016 Aug;30(2):131-4.

The ongoing Zika virus (ZIKV) epidemic and unexpected clinical outcomes,
including Guillain-Barré syndrome and birth defects, has brought an urgent need
for animal models. We evaluated infection and pathogenesis with contemporary and 
historical ZIKV strains in immunocompetent mice and mice lacking components of
the antiviral response. Four- to six-week-old Irf3(-/-)Irf5(-/-)Irf7(-/-) triple 
knockout mice, which produce little interferon α/β, and mice lacking the
interferon receptor (Ifnar1(-/-)) developed neurological disease and succumbed to
ZIKV infection, whereas single Irf3(-/-), Irf5(-/-), and Mavs(-/-) knockout mice 
exhibited no overt illness. Ifnar1(-/-) mice sustained high viral loads in the
brain and spinal cord, consistent with evidence that ZIKV causes
neurodevelopmental defects in human fetuses. The testes of Ifnar1(-/-) mice had
the highest viral loads, which is relevant to sexual transmission of ZIKV. This
model of ZIKV pathogenesis will be valuable for evaluating vaccines and
therapeutics as well as understanding disease pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chom.2016.03.010 
PMCID: PMC4866885
PMID: 27066744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. PLoS One. 2016 Apr 6;11(4):e0151999. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0151999.
eCollection 2016.

An IRF5 Decoy Peptide Reduces Myocardial Inflammation and Fibrosis and Improves
Endothelial Cell Function in Tight-Skin Mice.

Weihrauch D(1), Krolikowski JG(1), Jones DW(2)(3), Zaman T(2)(3), Bamkole O(1),
Struve J(4), Pillai S(1), Pagel PS(1)(5), Lohr NL(6), Pritchard KA Jr(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Anesthesiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(2)Department of Surgery, Division of Pediatric Surgery, Medical College of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.
(3)Children's Research Institute, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, United States of America.
(4)Orthopedic Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United
States of America.
(5)Clement J. Zablocki Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
United States of America.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States of America.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has been called a "master switch" for its
ability to determine whether cells mount proinflammatory or anti-inflammatory
responses. Accordingly, IRF5 should be an attractive target for therapeutic drug 
development. Here we report on the development of a novel decoy peptide inhibitor
of IRF5 that decreases myocardial inflammation and improves vascular endothelial 
cell (EC) function in tight-skin (Tsk/+) mice. Biolayer interferometry studies
showed the Kd of IRF5D for recombinant IRF5 to be 3.72 ± 0.74x10-6M. Increasing
concentrations of IRF5D (0-100 μg/mL, 24h) had no significant effect on EC
proliferation or apoptosis. Treatment of Tsk/+ mice with IRF5D (1mg/kg/d
subcutaneously, 21d) reduced IRF5 and ICAM-1 expression and monocyte/macrophage
and neutrophil counts in Tsk/+ hearts compared to expression in hearts from
PBS-treated Tsk/+ mice (p<0.05). EC-dependent vasodilatation of facialis arteries
isolated from PBS-treated Tsk/+ mice was reduced (~15%). IRF5D treatments
(1mg/kg/d, 21d) improved vasodilatation in arteries isolated from Tsk/+ mice
nearly 3-fold (~45%, p<0.05), representing nearly 83% of the vasodilatation in
arteries isolated from C57Bl/6J mice (~55%). IRF5D (50μg/mL, 24h) reduced nuclear
translocation of IRF5 in myocytes cultured on both Tsk/+ cardiac matrix and
C57Bl/6J cardiac matrix (p<0.05). These data suggest that IRF5 plays a causal
role in inflammation, fibrosis and impaired vascular EC function in Tsk/+ mice
and that treatment with IRF5D effectively counters IRF5-dependent mechanisms of
inflammation and fibrosis in the myocardium in these mice.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0151999 
PMCID: PMC4822818
PMID: 27050551  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Int Immunopharmacol. 2016 Jun;35:119-126. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.03.030. Epub
2016 Apr 16.

Baicalin ameliorates experimental inflammatory bowel disease through polarization
of macrophages to an M2 phenotype.

Zhu W(1), Jin Z(2), Yu J(2), Liang J(3), Yang Q(4), Li F(1), Shi X(1), Zhu X(5), 
Zhang X(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang, China.
(3)Department of Histoembryology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang, China.
(4)Department of Laboratory Animals, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang,
China.
(5)Department of Immunology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang, China.
Electronic address: xiaodongzhu@126.com.
(6)Department of Immunology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang, China.
Electronic address: xiaoli2595@126.com.

Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are chronic inflammatory disorders of the
intestinal tract. Baicalin, originally isolated from the root of the Chinese herb
Huangqin (Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi) and its main active ingredient, has a
protective effect against inflammatory responses in several diseases. The present
study investigated the effects of baicalin on macrophage polarization and its
therapeutic role in IBD. Murine peritoneal macrophages and mice with colitis were
treated with baicalin. Macrophage subset distribution, M1 and M2
macrophage-associated mRNA expression, and interferon regulatory factor 4 and 5
(IRF4 and IRF5) expression were analyzed. siRNA transfection into mouse
peritoneal macrophages was utilized to suppress IRF4. Fluorescence-activated cell
sorting, western blot, and real-time PCR analyses were performed. Baicalin (50μM)
limited lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced M1 macrophage polarization; decreased
LPS-induced tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin (IL)-23, and IRF5 expression;
and increased IL-10, arginase-1 (Arg-1), and IRF4 expression. siRNA-mediated IRF4
silencing significantly impaired baicalin activity. Furthermore, pretreatment
with baicalin (100mg/kg) in mice with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced
colitis ameliorated the severity of colitis and significantly decreased the
disease activity index (baicalin group, 3.33±0.52 vs. DSS group, 5.67±1.03).
Baicalin (100mg/kg) also repressed IRF5 protein expression and promoted IRF4
protein expression in the lamina propria mononuclear cells, and induced
macrophage polarization to the M2 phenotype. In summary, our results showed that 
baicalin upregulates IRF4 protein expression and reverses LPS-induced macrophage 
subset redistribution. Thus, baicalin alleviates DSS-induced colitis by
modulating macrophage polarization to the M2 phenotype.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.03.030 
PMID: 27039210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Clin Rheumatol. 2016 May;35(5):1161-8. doi: 10.1007/s10067-016-3235-8. Epub 2016 
Mar 28.

Genetic association study of systemic lupus erythematosus and disease
subphenotypes in European populations.

Ruiz-Larrañaga O(1), Migliorini P(2), Uribarri M(3), Czirják L(4), Alcaro MC(5), 
Del Amo J(3), Iriondo M(6), Manzano C(6), Escorza-Treviño S(3), Estonba A(6).

Author information: 
(1)Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology Department, University
of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain. otsanda.ruiz@ehu.eus.
(2)Clinical Immunology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(3)Department of Research and Development, Progenika Biopharma S.A., Derio,
Spain.
(4)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, University of Pécs, Pécs, Hungary.
(5)Department of Research and Development, Toscana Biomarkers S.r.l., Siena,
Italy.
(6)Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology Department, University
of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain.

Epidemiological studies suggest a strong contribution of genetic factors in the
pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). In the last decades, many
risk loci have been identified in several genetic association studies following
both candidate gene and genome-wide approaches. The present work was conducted by
GAPAID (Genes And Proteins for AutoImmunity Diagnostics) consortium with a dual
aim: to replicate the association of several previously reported SLE
susceptibility loci in an independent European sample and to explore their
relation with some disease subphenotypes. A total of 48 single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNP) from 40 associated loci were typed in a cohort of 208 SLE
patients and 152 controls from Rheumatology Units of the University Hospital of
Pisa (Italy) and University of Pécs Medical Center (Hungary). Regression analyses
were performed to detect disease susceptibility loci and to identify genes
affecting specific disease manifestations (renal, neurological, or skin
involvement; arthritis; secondary Sjögren syndrome; and secondary
antiphospholipid syndrome). Association of previously described risk alleles from
HLA locus has been replicated, while IRF5, BLK, ITGAM, and IRF8 loci have been
found to be consistent with previous published results. In addition, two new
subphenotype-specific associations have been detected: SNP rs5754217 (UBE2L3)
with skin involvement and rs3093030 (ICAM1-ICAM4-ICAM5) with hematological
disorders. Overall, results from GAPAID project are consistent with previously
established associations for HLA, IRF5, BLK, ITGAM, and IRF8 SLE susceptibility
loci and report for the first time two subphenotype-specific associations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-016-3235-8 
PMID: 27021335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Biol Chem. 2016 May 27;291(22):11491-503. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.702092. Epub
2016 Mar 23.

Emodin Bidirectionally Modulates Macrophage Polarization and Epigenetically
Regulates Macrophage Memory.

Iwanowycz S(1), Wang J(1), Altomare D(2), Hui Y(1), Fan D(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of South Carolina 
School of Medicine, Columbia, South Carolina 29209 and.
(2)the Department of Drug Discovery and Biomedical Sciences, South Carolina
College of Pharmacy, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina
29208.
(3)From the Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy, University of South Carolina 
School of Medicine, Columbia, South Carolina 29209 and daping.fan@uscmed.sc.edu.

Macrophages are pleiotropic cells capable of performing a broad spectrum of
functions. Macrophage phenotypes are classified along a continuum between the
extremes of proinflammatory M1 macrophages and anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages. 
The seemingly opposing functions of M1 and M2 macrophages must be tightly
regulated for an effective and proper response to foreign molecules or damaged
tissue. Excessive activation of either M1 or M2 macrophages contributes to the
pathology of many diseases. Emodin is a Chinese herb-derived compound and has
shown potential to inhibit inflammation in various settings. In this study, we
tested the ability of emodin to modulate the macrophage response to both M1 and
M2 stimuli. Primary mouse macrophages were stimulated with LPS/IFNγ or IL4 with
or without emodin, and the effects of emodin on gene transcription, cell
signaling pathways, and histone modifications were examined by a variety of
approaches, including microarray, quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting,
chromatin immunoprecipitation, and functional assays. We found that emodin
bidirectionally tunes the induction of LPS/IFNγ- and IL4-responsive genes through
inhibiting NFκB/IRF5/STAT1 signaling and IRF4/STAT6 signaling, respectively.
Thereby, emodin modulates macrophage phagocytosis, migration, and NO production. 
Furthermore, emodin inhibited the removal of H3K27 trimethylation (H3K27m3) marks
and the addition of H3K27 acetylation (H3K27ac) marks on genes required for M1 or
M2 polarization of macrophages. In conclusion, our data suggest that emodin is
uniquely able to suppress the excessive response of macrophages to both M1 and M2
stimuli and therefore has the potential to restore macrophage homeostasis in
various pathologies.

© 2016 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M115.702092 
PMCID: PMC4882421
PMID: 27008857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Alzheimers Dis. 2016 Mar 16;52(2):483-95. doi: 10.3233/JAD-151090.

M2 Macrophage Transplantation Ameliorates Cognitive Dysfunction in
Amyloid-β-Treated Rats Through Regulation of Microglial Polarization.

Zhu D, Yang N, Liu YY, Zheng J, Ji C, Zuo PP.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder in the
elderly population. Neuroinflammation induced by amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation is
considered to be the critical factor underlying AD pathological mechanisms.
Alternatively activated (M2) macrophages/microglia have been reported to have
neuroprotective effects in neurodegenerative disease. In this study, we
characterized the neuroprotective effects of M2 macrophage transplantation in AD 
model rats and investigated the underlying mechanisms. Intracerebroventricular
injection of Aβ1 - 42 to rats was used to model AD and resulted in cognitive
impairment, neuronal damage, and inflammatory changes in the brain
microenvironment. We observed an increased interferon regulatory factor (IRF)
5/IRF4 ratio, resulting in greater production of classically activated (M1)
versus M2 microglia. M2 macrophage transplantation attenuated inflammation in the
brain, reversed Aβ1 - 42-induced changes in the IRF4-IRF5 ratio, drove endogenous
microglial polarization toward the M2 phenotype, and ameliorated cognitive
impairment. Nerve growth factor (NGF) treatment reduced the IRF5/IRF4 ratio and
induced primary microglial polarization to the M2 phenotype in vitro; these
effects were prevented by tyrosine Kinase Receptor A (TrkA) inhibition. M2
macrophage transplantation restored the balance of IRF4-IRF5 by affecting the
expression of NGF and inflammatory cytokines in the brains of AD model rats. This
drove microglial polarization to the M2 phenotype, promoted termination of
neuroinflammation, and resulted in improved cognitive abilities.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-151090 
PMID: 27003214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2016 May;52:248-57. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.03.011. Epub 
2016 Mar 12.

Comparative analysis of the small RNA transcriptomes of miiuy croaker revealed
microRNA-mediated regulation of TLR signaling pathway response to Vibrio
anguillarum infection.

Xu G(1), Han J(1), Xu T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Fish Biogenetics & Immune Evolution, College of Marine Science, 
Zhejiang Ocean University, Zhoushan, 316022, China.
(2)Laboratory of Fish Biogenetics & Immune Evolution, College of Marine Science, 
Zhejiang Ocean University, Zhoushan, 316022, China. Electronic address:
tianjunxu@163.com.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an abundant class of endogenous noncoding small RNAs
(sRNAs) that are partially complementary to their target messenger RNA (mRNA),
which post-transcriptionally regulate various biological processes by repressing 
mRNA translation or inducing mRNA degradation. MiRNAs have been demonstrated to
play crucial roles in the host response to infection by diverse pathogens. As an 
important bacterial pathogen, Vibrio anguillarum has been caused great economic
losses in miiuy croaker aquaculture. To identify immune-related miRNAs of miiuy
croaker in response to V. anguillarum infection, we constructed two sRNA
libraries with or without bacterial infection. High-throughput deep sequencing
and subsequent bioinformatic analysis identified 241 conserved and 137 novel
miRNA precursors in miiuy croaker based on its whole genome sequences, encoding
293 and 124 mature miRNAs, respectively. Then we compared the expression patterns
of miRNAs in the two libraries. There were significant differences in the
expression of 12 miRNAs between the infection group (IG) and control group (CG). 
Further, the expressions of six miRNAs were validated by real-time quantitative
PCR. The target gene prediction and function analysis were conducted for the 12
differential miRNAs. This analysis revealed that these miRNAs participated in the
regulation multiple immune-related signaling pathways. Transcription factors in
TLR signaling, such as AP-1, IRF5, NF-κB and IRF3, were activated by these miRNAs
via post-transcriptionally regulating the expression of TLRs and TLR-associated
signaling proteins, inducing effective host immune response to eradicate
infectious pathogens. This is the first study of the identification and
characterization of miiuy croaker miRNAs in response to V. anguillarum infection.
The comprehensive analysis of the expression of miRNAs and the target gene and
function prediction of differently expressed miRNAs may help to understand the
regulatory mechanisms of miRNA in fish during the interaction between host and
bacterial pathogens.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.03.011 
PMID: 26980609  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Cell Host Microbe. 2016 Mar 9;19(3):375-87. doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2016.02.003.

Type I Interferon Signaling Prevents IL-1β-Driven Lethal Systemic
Hyperinflammation during Invasive Bacterial Infection of Soft Tissue.

Castiglia V(1), Piersigilli A(2), Ebner F(1), Janos M(1), Goldmann O(3), Damböck 
U(1), Kröger A(4), Weiss S(5), Knapp S(6), Jamieson AM(7), Kirschning C(8),
Kalinke U(9), Strobl B(10), Müller M(10), Stoiber D(11), Lienenklaus S(12),
Kovarik P(13).

Author information: 
(1)Max F. Perutz Laboratories, University of Vienna, Vienna Biocenter (VBC), 1030
Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute of Animal Pathology (COMPATH), University of Bern, 3012 Bern,
Switzerland; Life Science Faculty, EPFL, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Infection Immunology Research Group, Helmholtz Center for Infection Research, 
38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(4)Institute of Medical Microbiology, Otto-von-Guericke-University, 39106
Magdeburg, Germany; Department of Molecular Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for
Infection Research, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(5)Department of Molecular Immunology, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research,
38124 Braunschweig, Germany.
(6)Center for Molecular Medicine of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, 1090
Vienna, Austria; Department of Medicine I, Laboratory of Infection Biology,
Medical University of Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria.
(7)Division of Biology and Medicine, Department of Molecular Microbiology and
Immunology, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
(8)Institute of Medical Microbiology, University of Duisburg-Essen, 45147 Essen, 
Germany.
(9)Institute for Experimental Infection Research, TWINCORE, Centre for
Experimental and Clinical Infection Research, Hannover Medical School and
Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, 30625 Hannover, Germany.
(10)Institute of Animal Breeding and Genetics, University of Veterinary Medicine 
Vienna, 1210 Vienna, Austria.
(11)Institute of Pharmacology, Medical University of Vienna, 1090 Vienna,
Austria; Ludwig Boltzmann Institute for Cancer Research, 1090 Vienna, Austria.
(12)Institute for Experimental Infection Research, TWINCORE, Centre for
Experimental and Clinical Infection Research, Hannover Medical School and
Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research, 30625 Hannover, Germany; Institute for
Laboratory Animal Science, Hannover Medical School, 30625 Hannover, Germany.
(13)Max F. Perutz Laboratories, University of Vienna, Vienna Biocenter (VBC),
1030 Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: pavel.kovarik@univie.ac.at.

Comment in
    Cell Host Microbe. 2016 Mar 9;19(3):272-4.

Type I interferons (IFN-Is) are fundamental for antiviral immunity, but their
role in bacterial infections is contradictory and incompletely described.
Streptococcus pyogenes activates IFN-I production in innate immune cells, and
IFN-I receptor 1 (Ifnar1)-deficient mice are highly susceptible to S. pyogenes
infection. Here we report that IFN-I signaling protects the host against invasive
S. pyogenes infection by restricting inflammation-driven damage in distant
tissues. Lethality following infection in Ifnar1-deficient mice is caused by
systemically exacerbated levels of the proinflammatory cytokine IL-1β. Critical
cellular effectors of IFN-I in vivo are LysM+ and CD11c+ myeloid cells, which
exhibit suppression of Il1b transcription upon Ifnar1 engagement. These cells are
also the major source of IFN-β, which is significantly induced by S. pyogenes 23S
rRNA in an Irf5-dependent manner. Our study establishes IL-1β and IFN-I levels as
key homeostatic variables of protective, yet tuned, immune responses against
severe invasive bacterial infection.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chom.2016.02.003 
PMID: 26962946  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Sci Rep. 2016 Mar 9;6:22401. doi: 10.1038/srep22401.

Epstein Barr Virus and Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis peptides are
recognized in sera and cerebrospinal fluid of MS patients.

Mameli G(1), Cocco E(2), Frau J(2), Marrosu MG(3), Sechi LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Sezione di Microbiologia e Virologia,
Università di Sassari, Viale San Pietro 43b, 07100 Sassari, Italy.
(2)Centro Sclerosi Multipla, Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica Medicina Clinica e
Molecolare, Università di Cagliari, Via Is Guadazzonis 2, 09126 Cagliari, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche "Mario Aresu", Università di Cagliari, 09126
Cagliari, Italy.

Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)
epitopes elicit a consistent humoral response in serum of multiple sclerosis
patients, but the cross reactivity against the homologous myelin basic protein
(MBP) and human interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has not been searched
within the Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF). We evaluated in sera and CSF of patients 
with MS and with other neurological diseases (OND) the humoral response against
EBV/MAP peptides and the IRF5/MBP. Our data showed that EBV and MAP peptides are 
able to induce a specific humoral immune response in MS patients compared to OND 
controls both in serum and in CSF. An intrathecal specific synthesis of IgG
against MBP and their EBV and MAP homologous as indicated by the antibody index
was observed in MS patients. The humoral response against EBV, MAP, MBP and IRF5 
was significantly higher in MS patients compared to OND both in serum and in CSF.
The higher presence of antibodies against MBP and their MAP and EBV homologous in
CSF during relapses suggests a possible role of the pathogens in enhancing
inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/srep22401 
PMCID: PMC4783662
PMID: 26956729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2016 Mar-Apr;34(2):236-41. Epub 2016 Mar 3.

Genetic variants associated with rheumatoid arthritis patients and serotypes in
European populations.

Ruiz-Larrañaga O(1), Uribarri M(2), Alcaro MC(3), Escorza-Treviño S(2), Del Amo
J(2), Iriondo M(4), Manzano C(4), Migliorini P(5), Lóránd V(6), Estonba A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology,
University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain. otsanda.ruiz@ehu.eus.
(2)Department of Research and Development, Progenika Biopharma S.A., Derio,
Spain.
(3)Department of Research and Development, Toscana Biomarkers s.r.l., Siena,
Italy.
(4)Department of Genetics, Physical Anthropology and Animal Physiology,
University of the Basque Country (UPV/EHU), Leioa, Spain.
(5)Clinical Immunology Unit, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine,
University of Pisa, Italy.
(6)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, University of Pécs, Medical Center,
Pécs, Hungary.

OBJECTIVES: To replicate the association of rheumatoid arthritis (RA)
susceptibility loci in an independent European sample and to assess their
specificity with anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA) status.
METHODS: A selection of 64 SNP previously associated with RA have been typed in a
cohort of 267 RA patients (169 ACPA-positive and 98 ACPA-negative) and 152
controls from the Rheumatology Units of the University Hospital of Pisa (Italy)
and the University of Pécs Medical Center (Hungary). Regression analyses were
performed first considering overall RA patients and secondly, taking both
serotype subgroups as different disease entities. The results have been adjusted 
for age, gender and origin of individuals.
RESULTS: The well-known CD2, REL, TNFAIP3, IRF5, PTPRC, and CCR6 have been
confirmed as RA disease associated loci together with recently discovered BACH2, 
RASGRP1, and IKZF3 loci, taking all RA patients as a unique phenotype. Results
from both serological subgroups separately reflect the specificity of these
susceptibility loci and show additional ACPA-positive specific associations for
variants at IL6R, IL2RA, BLK, DDX6, IL6, and TLE3 genes.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from GAPAID project are consistent with previously
established RA disease associations for CD2, PTPRC, REL, CCR6, TNFAIP3, IRF5,
BLK, IL2RA, and DDX6 loci. In addition, IL6R, BACH2, RASGRP1, TLE3, and IKZF3 are
replicated for the first time in an independent European population and IL6
appears to be a suggestive new RA associated locus. The stratified analysis based
on ACPA status provides further support for distinct genetic aetiologies of RA
subsets, which might have therapeutic implications.


PMID: 26939566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Funct Integr Genomics. 2016 May;16(3):297-321. doi: 10.1007/s10142-016-0485-0.
Epub 2016 Feb 24.

Analysis of human breast milk cells: gene expression profiles during pregnancy,
lactation, involution, and mastitic infection.

Sharp JA(1)(2), Lefèvre C(3), Watt A(4), Nicholas KR(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Frontier Materials, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, 3216,
Australia. julie.sharp@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, Clayton,
VIC, 3800, Australia. julie.sharp@deakin.edu.au.
(3)Division of Bioinformatics, Walter and Eliza Hall Medical Research Institute, 
Melbourne, 3000, Australia.
(4)Institute for Frontier Materials, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, 3216,
Australia.
(5)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Monash University, Clayton,
VIC, 3800, Australia.

The molecular processes underlying human milk production and the effects of
mastitic infection are largely unknown because of limitations in obtaining tissue
samples. Determination of gene expression in normal lactating women would be a
significant step toward understanding why some women display poor lactation
outcomes. Here, we demonstrate the utility of RNA obtained directly from human
milk cells to detect mammary epithelial cell (MEC)-specific gene expression. Milk
cell RNA was collected from five time points (24 h prepartum during the colostrum
period, midlactation, two involutions, and during a bout of mastitis) in addition
to an involution series comprising three time points. Gene expression profiles
were determined by use of human Affymetrix arrays. Milk cells collected during
milk production showed that the most highly expressed genes were involved in milk
synthesis (e.g., CEL, OLAH, FOLR1, BTN1A1, and ARG2), while milk cells collected 
during involution showed a significant downregulation of milk synthesis genes and
activation of involution associated genes (e.g., STAT3, NF-kB, IRF5, and IRF7).
Milk cells collected during mastitic infection revealed regulation of a unique
set of genes specific to this disease state, while maintaining regulation of milk
synthesis genes. Use of conventional epithelial cell markers was used to
determine the population of MECs within each sample. This paper is the first to
describe the milk cell transcriptome across the human lactation cycle and during 
mastitic infection, providing valuable insight into gene expression of the human 
mammary gland.

DOI: 10.1007/s10142-016-0485-0 
PMID: 26909879  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Rheumatol. 2016 May;43(5):839-45. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.150836. Epub 2016 Feb 15.

Immunochip Analyses of Epistasis in Rheumatoid Arthritis Confirm Multiple
Interactions within MHC and Suggest Novel Non-MHC Epistatic Signals.

Wei WH(1), Loh CY(2), Worthington J(2), Eyre S(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of 
Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; National Institute for 
Health Research (NIHR) Manchester Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit,
Central Manchester National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.W.H. Wei*, PhD, Lecturer in
Statistical Genetics, Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics,
Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences,
Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; C.Y. Loh*,
MRes, PhD Student, Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics,
Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences,
Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; J.
Worthington, PhD, Professor of Chronic Disease Genetics, Arthritis Research UK
Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty
of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre,
University of Manchester, and NIHR Manchester Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research
Unit, Central Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science
Centre; S. Eyre, PhD, Senior Research Fellow on Rheumatological Disorders,
Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of Inflammation
and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester Academic Health
Science Centre, University of Manchester, and NIHR Manchester Musculoskeletal
Biomedical Research Unit, Central Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre. wenhua.wei@manchester.ac.uk.
(2)From the Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of 
Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; National Institute for 
Health Research (NIHR) Manchester Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research Unit,
Central Manchester National Health Service (NHS) Foundation Trust, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre, Manchester, UK.W.H. Wei*, PhD, Lecturer in
Statistical Genetics, Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics,
Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences,
Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; C.Y. Loh*,
MRes, PhD Student, Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics,
Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences,
Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, University of Manchester; J.
Worthington, PhD, Professor of Chronic Disease Genetics, Arthritis Research UK
Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of Inflammation and Repair, Faculty
of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre,
University of Manchester, and NIHR Manchester Musculoskeletal Biomedical Research
Unit, Central Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Academic Health Science
Centre; S. Eyre, PhD, Senior Research Fellow on Rheumatological Disorders,
Arthritis Research UK Centre for Genetics and Genomics, Institute of Inflammation
and Repair, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences, Manchester Academic Health
Science Centre, University of Manchester, and NIHR Manchester Musculoskeletal
Biomedical Research Unit, Central Manchester NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester
Academic Health Science Centre.

OBJECTIVE: Studying statistical gene-gene interactions (epistasis) has been
limited by the difficulties in performance, both statistically and
computationally, in large enough sample numbers to gain sufficient power. Three
large Immunochip datasets from cohort samples recruited in the United Kingdom,
United States, and Sweden with European ancestry were used to examine epistasis
in rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: A full pairwise search was conducted in the UK cohort using a
high-throughput tool and the resultant significant epistatic signals were tested 
for replication in the United States and Swedish cohorts. A forward selection
approach was applied to remove redundant signals, while conditioning on the
preidentified additive effects.
RESULTS: We detected abundant genome-wide significant (p < 1.0e-13) epistatic
signals, all within the MHC region. These signals were reduced substantially, but
a proportion remained significant (p < 1.0e-03) in conditional tests. We
identified 11 independent epistatic interactions across the entire MHC, each
explaining on average 0.12% of the phenotypic variance, nearly all replicated in 
both replication cohorts. We also identified non-MHC epistatic interactions
between RA susceptible loci LOC100506023 and IRF5 with Immunochip-wide
significance (p < 1.1e-08) and between 2 neighboring single-nucleotide
polymorphism near PTPN22 that were in low linkage disequilibrium with independent
interaction (p < 1.0e-05). Both non-MHC epistatic interactions were statistically
replicated with a similar interaction pattern in the US cohort only.
CONCLUSION: There are multiple but relatively weak interactions independent of
the additive effects in RA and a larger sample number is required to confidently 
assign additional non-MHC epistasis.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.150836 
PMID: 26879349  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Cell Biol Int. 2016 Jun;40(6):629-41. doi: 10.1002/cbin.10589. Epub 2016 Mar 3.

A protease-activated receptor 2 agonist (AC-264613) suppresses interferon
regulatory factor 5 and decreases interleukin-12p40 production by
lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages: Role of p53.

Yamaguchi R(1)(2), Yamamoto T(1), Sakamoto A(1), Ishimaru Y(1), Narahara S(1),
Sugiuchi H(1), Yamaguchi Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate School of Medical Science, Kumamoto Health Science University, Kitaku
Izumi-machi 325, Kumamoto, 861-5598, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Medical Science, Kumamoto University Medical School,
Chuo-ku Honjo 1-1-1, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan.

The transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has a key role in 
the production of interleukin (IL)-12 by macrophages. IRF5 is also a central
mediator of toll-like receptor signaling and is a direct target of p53.
Activation of protease-activated receptor 2 (PAR-2) upregulates p53 and
suppresses apoptosis. This study investigated the influence of human neutrophil
elastase (HNE) and PAR-2 agonists on expression of IRF5 and IL-12p40 by
macrophages stimulated with lipopolysaccharide. Granulocyte-macrophage
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-dependent macrophages showed upregulation of
IRF5 expression, while HNE reduced expression of p53 and IRF5 in a
concentration-dependent manner. HNE also caused a concentration-dependent
decrease of IRF5 in macrophages transfected with small interfering RNA to silence
p53, while silencing of β-arrestin 2 blunted the reduction of p53 or IRF5 by HNE.
Incubation of macrophages with a PAR-2 agonist, AC-264613, caused a decrease of
IRF5 expression and also significantly reduced p53 protein expression. HNE
upregulated the expression of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 
(TRAF6) and caused transactivation of TLR4, while AC-264613 did not promote TLR4 
transactivation. In conclusion, the PAR-2 agonist AC-264613 attenuated
IRF5-associated IL-12p40 production by macrophages.

© 2016 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.10589 
PMID: 26833899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Autoimmun Rev. 2016 May;15(5):433-9. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2016.01.005. Epub 2016
Jan 21.

Genetic aspects of the antiphospholipid syndrome: An update.

Sebastiani GD(1), Iuliano A(2), Cantarini L(3), Galeazzi M(4).

Author information: 
(1)U.O.C. Reumatologia, Ospedale San Camillo-Forlanini, Roma, Italy. Electronic
address: giandoreum@libero.it.
(2)U.O.C. Reumatologia, Ospedale San Camillo-Forlanini, Roma, Italy. Electronic
address: annamariaiuliano@hotmail.it.
(3)Dip. Di Medicina Clinica e Scienze Immunologiche sez. di Reumatologia,
Policlinico Le Scotte, Università di Siena, Siena, Italy. Electronic address:
cantariniluca@hotmail.com.
(4)Dip. Di Medicina Clinica e Scienze Immunologiche sez. di Reumatologia,
Policlinico Le Scotte, Università di Siena, Siena, Italy. Electronic address:
galeazzi@unisi.it.

Studies on the immunogenetic predisposition to antiphospholipid syndrome (APS)
and on other non-genetic and epigenetic factors are summarised and discussed.
Family studies suggest a genetic predisposition to APS. It appears that this
genetic predisposition is in part accounted for by the HLA system, the most
consistent associations being those with DR4 and DRw53. Furthermore, it appears
that lupus anticoagulant (LA) and anticardiolipin (aCL) antibodies are both
associated with the same HLA antigens. Population studies suggest that HLA genes 
have a role in conferring susceptibility to develop primary APS, with some
differences in different ethnic groups. Other genes, outside the MHC, give their 
contribution to the development of this autoimmune syndrome, such as IRF5, STAT4 
and those related to inherited thrombophilia--factor V Leiden and G20210A
prothrombin polymorphisms. Finally, post-transcriptional modifications of
anti-beta2GPI antibodies could be implicated too.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2016.01.005 
PMID: 26804759  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Pharmacol Res. 2016 Mar;105:216-25. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2015.11.010. Epub 2016
Jan 15.

Structure, mechanism and therapeutic utility of immunosuppressive
oligonucleotides.

Bayik D(1), Gursel I(2), Klinman DM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Inflammation Program, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer
Research, Frederick, MD 21702, USA; Bilkent University, Molecular Biology and
Genetic Department, Therapeutic ODN Research Laboratory, Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Bilkent University, Molecular Biology and Genetic Department, Therapeutic ODN 
Research Laboratory, Ankara, Turkey. Electronic address:
ihsangursel@bilkent.edu.tr.
(3)Cancer and Inflammation Program, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer
Research, Frederick, MD 21702, USA. Electronic address: klinmand@mail.nih.gov.

Synthetic oligodeoxynucleotides that can down-regulate cellular elements of the
immune system have been developed and are being widely studied in preclinical
models. These agents vary in sequence, mechanism of action, and cellular
target(s) but share the ability to suppress a plethora of inflammatory responses.
This work reviews the types of immunosuppressive oligodeoxynucleotide (Sup ODN)
and compares their therapeutic activity against diseases characterized by
pathologic levels of immune stimulation ranging from autoimmunity to septic shock
to cancer (see graphical abstract). The mechanism(s) underlying the efficacy of
Sup ODN and the influence size, sequence and nucleotide backbone on function are 
considered.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2015.11.010 
PMCID: PMC6417099
PMID: 26779666  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2016 Mar;50:34-42. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.01.012. Epub
2016 Jan 13.

Positive Darwinian selection within interferon regulatory factor genes of
Gymnocypris przewalskii (Cyprinidae) on the Tibetan Plateau.

Tong C(1), Tian F(2), Tang Y(1), Feng C(1), Guan L(3), Zhang C(2), Zhao K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Adaptation and Evolution of Plateau Biota, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China;
Laboratory of Plateau Fish Evolutionary and Functional Genomics, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China;
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100049, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Adaptation and Evolution of Plateau Biota, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China;
Laboratory of Plateau Fish Evolutionary and Functional Genomics, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China.
(3)Department of Life Science and Technology, Xinxiang Medical University,
Xinxiang, 453003, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Adaptation and Evolution of Plateau Biota, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China;
Laboratory of Plateau Fish Evolutionary and Functional Genomics, Northwest
Institute of Plateau Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Xining, 810001, China.
Electronic address: zhaokai@nwipb.cas.cn.

Tibetan Plateau (TP) had experienced phased uplift, resulting in inhospitable
environment of low temperature, hypoxia and high ultraviolet radiation for
Tibetan wildlife. Many organisms can well adapt to TP, it is of ecological and
evolutionary interest to untangle how organisms adapt to extreme environment on
TP through evolution. Previous studies mainly focused on hypoxia and metabolism
related genes, but we know little about the evolutionary history of immune genes 
in Tibetan wildlife. In this study, we first identified 10 interferon regulatory 
factor (IRF) genes from Tibetan naked carp Gymnocypris przewalskii. Within this
gene family, IRF3, IRF5, IRF7 and IRF8 contained positive selection sites.
Evidences indicated that positive selection may lead to IRF genes functional
alternations, presumably driving genes towards adaptation to the environmental
changes. Taken together, our results suggested 4 candidate genes as interesting
targets for further experimental confirmation of their functional variations and 
contributions to high altitude adaptation in Tibet fish.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2016.01.012 
PMID: 26774494  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2016;16(7):594-605.

Roles of Interferon Regulatory Factors in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia.

Manzella L(1), Tirrò E, Pennisi MS, Massimino M, Stella S, Romano C, Vitale SR,
Vigneri P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Faculty of Medicine,
University of Catania, Via Androne, 85 - 95124 - Catania, Italy.
manzella@unict.it.

The Interferon Regulatory Factor (IRF) family consists of multiple transcription 
factors involved in the regulation of a variety of biological processes.
Originally identified as transcriptional regulators of the type I interferon
system, IRFs play a pivotal role in adaptive immunity, cell growth,
differentiation and tumorigenesis. Hence, understanding IRF biology has important
implications in the host response to cancer development and progression. Many
lines of evidence suggest that different IRFs are involved in the pathogenesis of
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML), a myeloproliferative disorder caused by the
BCR-ABL oncoprotein. BCR-ABL displays constitutive tyrosine kinase activity that 
favors cell proliferation, inhibits apoptosis and allows cell survival even in
the absence of proper adhesion to the extracellular matrix. Different BCR-ABL
tyrosine kinase inhibitors are currently available for CML treatment. These drugs
are able to generate eight year CML-specific overall survival rates >90%, only a 
minority of patients will achieve molecular responses compatible with drug
discontinuation. Thus, there is an unmet need for additional therapeutic targets 
that may lead to the cure of most patients diagnosed with CML. A growing body of 
evidence has suggested a role for both IRF4 and IRF8 in the pathogenesis of CML. 
Furthermore, IRF1 is consistently deleted at one or both alleles in patients with
leukemia and myelodysplasia. Finally, we have recently demonstrated that IRF5 is 
a target of BCR-ABL kinase activity and reduces CML cell proliferation. In this
article, we provide an update on the current knowledge of the role of the IRFs in
CML.


PMID: 26728039  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Int J Dermatol. 2016 Apr;55(4):408-16. doi: 10.1111/ijd.12839. Epub 2015 Dec 29.

Polymorphisms in STAT4 and IRF5 increase the risk of systemic sclerosis: a
meta-analysis.

Xu Y(1), Wang W(1), Tian Y(1), Liu J(1), Yang R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, General Hospital of Beijing Military Command,
Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is the most severe connective tissue
disorder. Recent studies have demonstrated that genetic factors may play a role
in the development of SSc. The aim of this study was to investigate the
association of signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (STAT4)
rs7574865 and interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) rs2004640 polymorphisms with 
risk of SSc.
METHODS: Case-control studies were obtained from the electronic database of
PubMed, Medline, Embase, and CNKI (China National Knowledge Infrastructure) up to
December 2013. The association between STAT4 and IRF5 polymorphisms and SSc
susceptibility was assessed by pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence
intervals (CI).
RESULTS: Six related studies, including 4746 SSc cases and 7399 healthy controls,
were pooled in this meta-analysis. For STAT4 polymorphism, we observed a
statistically significant positive association between risk factor T allele
carriers and SSc susceptibility (OR = 1.37, 95% CI = 1.27-1.48, P < 0.00001) in
the overall population. The presence of limited cutaneous (lcSSc) and diffuse
cutaneous (dcSSc) scleroderma also showed a significant association with each of 
the genetic models (P < 0.00001). For IRF5 polymorphism, the T allele was shown
to be strongly associated with increased SSc risk (OR = 1.27, 95% CI = 1.17-1.39,
P < 0.00001). No significant heterogeneity between studies was found.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that STAT4 rs7574865 and IRF5 rs2004640G/T 
substitution are associated with a susceptibility to SSc, and they may serve as
the SSc genetic susceptibility factor. These data confirmed that genetic
polymorphisms may play a role in the development of SSc and have provided new
insight into the pathogenesis of SSc.

© 2015 The International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/ijd.12839 
PMID: 26712637  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Pathol. 2016 Mar;238(4):571-83. doi: 10.1002/path.4680. Epub 2016 Jan 25.

Low-grade inflammatory polarization of monocytes impairs wound healing.

Yuan R(1), Geng S(1), Chen K(1), Diao N(1), Chu HW(2), Li L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech, Blacksburg, VA, USA.
(2)Department of Medicine, National Jewish Health, Denver, CO, USA.

Impaired wound healing often accompanies low-grade inflammatory conditions,
during which circulating levels of subclinical super-low-dose endotoxin may
persist. Low-grade inflammatory monocyte polarization may occur during chronic
inflammation and deter effective wound repair. However, little is understood
about the potential mechanisms of monocyte polarization by sustained insult of
subclinical super-low-dose endotoxin. We observed that super-low-dose endotoxin
preferentially programmes a low-grade inflammatory monocyte state in vitro and in
vivo, as represented by the elevated population of CD11b(+) Ly6C(high) monocytes 
and sustained expression of CCR5. Mechanistically, super-low-dose endotoxin
caused cellular stress, altered lysosome function and increased the transcription
factor IRF5. TUDCA, a potent inhibitor of cellular stress, effectively blocked
monocyte polarization and improved wound healing in mice injected with
super-low-dose endotoxin. Our data revealed the polarization of low-grade
inflammatory monocytes by sustained endotoxin challenge, its underlying
mechanisms and a potential intervention strategy. Copyright © 2015 Pathological
Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2015 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by 
John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/path.4680 
PMCID: PMC4760849 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 26690561  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2016 May;68(5):1197-1209. doi: 10.1002/art.39548.

Identification of a Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Risk Locus Spanning ATG16L2,
FCHSD2, and P2RY2 in Koreans.

Lessard CJ(#)(1), Sajuthi S(#)(2), Zhao J(#)(3), Kim K(#)(4), Ice JA(1), Li
H(1)(5), Ainsworth H(2), Rasmussen A(1), Kelly JA(1), Marion M(2), Bang SY(4),
Joo YB(4), Choi J(4), Lee HS(4), Kang YM(6), Suh CH(7), Chung WT(8), Lee SK(9),
Choe JY(10), Shim SC(11), Oh JH(12), Kim YJ(12), Han BG(12), Shen N(13)(14), Howe
HS(15), Wakeland EK(16), Li QZ(16), Song YW(17), Gaffney PM(1), Alarcón-Riquelme 
ME(1)(18), Criswell LA(19), Jacob CO(20), Kimberly RP(21), Vyse TJ(22), Harley
JB(23)(24), Sivils KL(1)(5), Bae SC(4), Langefeld CD(2), Tsao BP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA.
(2)Center for Public Health Genomics and Department of Biostatistical Sciences,
Wake Forest University Health Sciences, Winston-Salem, NC 27157-106, USA.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, University of California Los
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic
Diseases, Seoul 133-792, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center,
Oklahoma City, OK 73014, USA.
(6)Kyungpook National University Hospital, Daegu 700-721, Republic of Korea.
(7)Ajou University Hospital, Suwon 443-380, Republic of Korea.
(8)Dong-A University Hospital, Busan 602-715, Republic of Korea.
(9)Department of Internal Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 
120-749, Republic of Korea.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, Catholic University of Daegu School of
Medicine, Daegu 705-718, Republic of Korea.
(11)Daejeon Rheumatoid & Degenerative Arthritis Center, Chungnam National
University Hospital, Daejeon 305-764, Republic of Korea.
(12)Korea National Institute of Health, Osong 361-709, Republic of Korea.
(13)Shanghai Institute of Rheumatology, Renji Hospital, Shanghai, China 200001.
(14)Shanghai JiaoTong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China 200025.
(15)Department of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology, Tan Tock Seng Hospital,
Singapore 308433.
(16)University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA.
(17)Department of Internal Medicine, Seoul National University Hospital, 101,
Daehak-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul 110-744, Republic of Korea.
(18)Centro de Genómica e Investigaciones Oncológicas, Pfizer-Universidad de
Granada-Junta de Andalućıa, Granada 18100, Spain.
(19)Rosalind Russell / Ephraim P. Engleman Rheumatology Research Center,
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, 94117, USA.
(20)Department of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
90095.
(21)Department of Medicine, Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.
(22)Divisions of Genetics and Molecular Medicine and Immunology, Infection and
Inflammatory Disease, King's College London, London, UK WC2R 2LS.
(23)Division of Rheumatology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH 45229, USA.
(24)US Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45220, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disorder
whose etiology is incompletely understood, but likely involves environmental
triggers in genetically susceptible individuals. Using an unbiased genome-wide
association (GWA) scan and replication analysis, we sought to identify the
genetic loci associated with SLE in a Korean population.
METHODS: A total of 1,174 SLE cases and 4,246 population controls from Korea were
genotyped and analyzed with a GWA scan to identify single-nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs) significantly associated with SLE, after strict quality
control measures were applied. For select variants, replication of SLE risk loci 
was tested in an independent data set of 1,416 SLE cases and 1,145 population
controls from Korea and China.
RESULTS: Eleven regions outside the HLA exceeded the genome-wide significance
level (P = 5 × 10(-8) ). A novel SNP-SLE association was identified between
FCHSD2 and P2RY2, peaking at rs11235667 (P = 1.03 × 10(-8) , odds ratio [OR]
0.59) on a 33-kb haplotype upstream of ATG16L2. In the independent replication
data set, the SNP rs11235667 continued to show a significant association with SLE
(replication meta-analysis P = 0.001, overall meta-analysis P = 6.67 × 10(-11) ; 
OR 0.63). Within the HLA region, the SNP-SLE association peaked in the class II
region at rs116727542, with multiple independent effects observed in this region.
Classic HLA allele imputation analysis identified HLA-DRB1*1501 and
HLA-DQB1*0602, each highly correlated with one another, as most strongly
associated with SLE. Ten previously established SLE risk loci were replicated:
STAT1-STAT4, TNFSF4, TNFAIP3, IKZF1, HIP1, IRF5, BLK, WDFY4, ETS1, and
IRAK1-MECP2. Of these loci, previously unreported, independent second risk
effects of SNPs in TNFAIP3 and TNFSF4, as well as differences in the association 
with a putative causal variant in the WDFY4 region, were identified.
CONCLUSION: Further studies are needed to identify true SLE risk effects in other
loci suggestive of a significant association, and to identify the causal variants
in the regions of ATG16L2, FCHSD2, and P2RY2.

© 2016, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39548 
PMCID: PMC4981330
PMID: 26663301  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Int Immunopharmacol. 2016 Jan;30:74-84. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2015.11.031. Epub
2015 Dec 3.

The pentacyclic triterpene Lupeol switches M1 macrophages to M2 and ameliorates
experimental inflammatory bowel disease.

Zhu Y(1), Li X(2), Chen J(3), Chen T(4), Shi Z(5), Lei M(6), Zhang Y(7), Bai
P(8), Li Y(9), Fei X(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
zhuyeshan1965@163.com.
(2)Department of Acupuncture, North China University of Science and Technology
School of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China.
Electronic address: 15531558238@163.com.
(3)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Yutian Hospital, Tangshan, Hebei
Province, China. Electronic address: 741094776@qq.com.
(4)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
tongjunchen@sina.com.
(5)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
shizhimin0613@163.com.
(6)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
eimiaona001@sina.com.
(7)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
zhangyj1312@126.com.
(8)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
854951455@qq.com.
(9)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
liyifang02@163.com.
(10)Department of Digestive Internal Medicine, Tangshan Hospital of Traditional
Chinese Medicine, Tangshan, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address:
1tsfuyou@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), including ulcerative colitis and
Crohn's disease, is a chronic inflammatory disease in the lower gastrointestinal 
tract. Mounting evidence suggests that the predominance of the classically
activated (M1) macrophages versus the alternatively activated (M2) macrophages
plays a role in the progression of IBD. Thus, agents able to shift
pro-inflammatory M1 macrophages to anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages may be
beneficial to IBD. The pentacyclic triterpene Lup-20(29)-en-3β-ol (Lupeol), a
potent anti-inflammatory natural product, has been shown to inhibit
pro-inflammatory cytokine production, suggesting it is potentially able to
modulate macrophage polarization, thereby beneficial to IBD.
METHODS: CD4(+) monocytes were differentiated to M1 or M2 macrophages, which were
cocultured with epithelial cell lines, T84 and Caco-2, in the absence or presence
of Lupeol (10μM). Experimental colitis was induced with dextran sodium sulfate
(DSS), with or without oral administration of Lupeol (50mg/kg, q.d.). Cytokines
were measured with Luminex kits. M1/M2 genes were measured with real-time
polymerase chain reaction. Macrophage phenotypes were defined by measuring M1 and
M2 markers with confocal microscopy. Proteins were measured with Western
blotting, while cell surface markers were measured with confocal microscopy or
flow cytometry. Histology was evaluated with H&E staining.
RESULTS: Treatment of M1 macrophages with Lupeol resulted in a marked decrease in
the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including IL-12, IL6, IL-1β and
TNFα, and a marked increase in the production of IL-10, an anti-inflammatory
cytokine. This was associated with a down-regulation of CD86, a typical marker of
M1 macrophages, and an up-regulation of CD206, a typical M2 macrophage marker.
IRF5, a transcription factor that is critically involved in M1 polarization, was 
down-regulated in M1 macrophages after being incubated with Lupeol, associated
with a marked decrease in the phosphorylation of p38 mitogen activated protein
kinase. Coculture of epithelial cells with M1 macrophages resulted in
down-regulation of the tight junction protein ZO-1 and disruption of epithelial
integrity, which were blocked by Lupeol treatment of the M1 macrophages.
Moreover, oral administration of Lupeol to dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced
colitis mice resulted in mitigated intestinal inflammation and increased survival
from lethal colitis, associated with decreased expression of M1-related genes and
increased expression of M2-related genes.
CONCLUSION: Lupeol ameliorates experimental inflammatory bowel disease through,
at least in part, inhibiting M1 and promoting M2 macrophages.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2015.11.031 
PMID: 26655877  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Tumour Biol. 2016 May;37(5):6673-9. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4519-3. Epub 2015 Dec
8.

Zoledronic acid induces apoptosis via stimulating the expressions of ERN1, TLR2, 
and IRF5 genes in glioma cells.

Biray Avci C(1), Kurt CC(2), Tepedelen BE(3), Ozalp O(2), Goker B(2), Mutlu Z(2),
Dodurga Y(4), Elmas L(4), Gunduz C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Biology Department, Ege University Medical School, Bornova, Izmir,
Turkey. cbavci@gmail.com.
(2)Medical Biology Department, Ege University Medical School, Bornova, Izmir,
Turkey.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Avrasya University Faculty of
Science and Letters, Trabzon, Turkey.
(4)Medical Biology Department, Pamukkale University Medical School, Denizli,
Turkey.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and aggressive brain tumor that 
affects older people. Although the current therapeutic approaches for GBM include
surgical resection, radiotherapy, and chemotherapeutic agent temozolomide, the
median survival of patients is 14.6 months because of its aggressiveness.
Zoledronic acid (ZA) is a nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate that exhibited
anticancer activity in different cancers. The purpose of this study was to assess
the potential effect of ZA in distinct signal transduction pathways in U87-MG
cells. In this study, experiments performed on U87-MG cell line (Human
glioblastoma-astrocytoma, epithelial-like cell line) which is an in vitro model
of human glioblastoma cells to examine the cytotoxic and apoptotic effects of ZA.
IC50 dose of ZA, 25 μM, applied on U87-MG cells during 72 h. ApoDIRECT In Situ
DNA Fragmentation Assay was used to investigate apoptosis of U87MG cells. The
quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR)
(LightCycler480 System) was carried out for 48 gene expression like NF-κB,
Toll-like receptors, cytokines, and inteferons. Our results indicated that ZA
(IC50 dose) increased apoptosis 1.27-fold in U87MG cells according to control
cells. According to qRT-PCR data, expression levels of the endoplasmic
reticulum-nuclei-1 (ERN1), Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), and human IFN regulatory 
factor 5 (IRF5) tumor suppressor genes elevated 2.05-, 2.08-, and 2.3-fold by ZA,
respectively, in U87MG cells. Our recent results indicated that ZA have a key
role in GBM progression and might be considered as a potential agent in glioma
treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4519-3 
PMID: 26646564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Eur J Immunol. 2016 Mar;46(3):647-55. doi: 10.1002/eji.201545911. Epub 2015 Dec
17.

IRF5 and IRF8 modulate the CAL-1 human plasmacytoid dendritic cell line response 
following TLR9 ligation.

Steinhagen F(1)(2), Rodriguez LG(1), Tross D(1), Tewary P(1), Bode C(1)(2),
Klinman DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cancer and Inflammation Program, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer
Research, Frederick, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University Hospital 
Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

Synthetic oligonucleotides (ODNs) containing CpG motifs stimulate human
plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) to produce type-1 interferons (IFNs) and
proinflammatory cytokines. Previous studies demonstrated that interferon
regulatory factors (IRFs) play a central role in mediating CpG-induced pDC
activation. This work explores the inverse effects of IRF5 and IRF8 (also known
as IFN consensus sequence-binding protein) on CpG-dependent gene expression in
the human CAL-1 pDC cell line. This cell line shares many of the phenotypic and
functional properties of freshly isolated human pDCs. Results from RNA
interference and microarray studies indicate that IRF5 upregulates TLR9-driven
gene expression whereas IRF8 downregulates the same genes. Several findings
support the conclusion that IRF8 inhibits TLR9-dependent gene expression by
directly blocking the activity of IRF5. First, the inhibitory activity of IRF8 is
only observed when IRF5 is present. Second, proximity ligation analysis shows
that IRF8 and IRF5 colocalize within the cytoplasm of resting human pDCs and
cotranslocate to the nucleus after CpG stimulation. Taken together, these
findings suggest that IRF5 and IRF8, two transcription factors with opposing
functions, control TLR9 signaling in human pDCs.

Published 2015. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201545911 
PMCID: PMC6385590
PMID: 26613957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2016 Apr;68(4):932-43. doi: 10.1002/art.39504.

Genome-Wide Association Study in an Amerindian Ancestry Population Reveals Novel 
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Risk Loci and the Role of European Admixture.

Alarcón-Riquelme ME(1), Ziegler JT(2), Molineros J(1), Howard TD(2),
Moreno-Estrada A(3), Sánchez-Rodríguez E(4), Ainsworth HC(2), Ortiz-Tello P(3),
Comeau ME(2), Rasmussen A(1), Kelly JA(1), Adler A(1), Acevedo-Vázquez EM(5),
Cucho-Venegas JM(5), García-De la Torre I(6), Cardiel MH(7), Miranda P(8),
Catoggio LJ(9), Maradiaga-Ceceña M(10), Gaffney PM(1), Vyse TJ(11), Criswell
LA(12), Tsao BP(13), Sivils KL(1), Bae SC(14), James JA(15), Kimberly RP(16),
Kaufman KM(17), Harley JB(17), Esquivel-Valerio JA(18), Moctezuma JF(19), García 
MA(20), Berbotto GA(21), Babini AM(22), Scherbarth H(23), Toloza S(24), Baca
V(25), Nath SK(1), Aguilar Salinas C(26), Orozco L(27), Tusié-Luna T(28),
Zidovetzki R(29), Pons-Estel BA(30), Langefeld CD(2), Jacob CO(31).

Author information: 
(1)Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City.
(2)Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
(3)Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, and Laboratorio 
Nacional de Genómica para la Biodiversidad, Centro de Investigación y de Estudios
Avanzados del Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Irapuato, Mexico.
(4)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(5)Hospital Nacional Guillermo Almenara Irigoyen, Lima, Peru.
(6)Hospital General de Occidente, Zapopan, Mexico.
(7)Centro de Investigación Clínica de Morelia, Morelia, Mexico.
(8)Centro de Estudios Reumatológicos, Santiago, Chile.
(9)Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(10)Hospital General de Culiacán, Culiacán, Mexico.
(11)King's College London, London, UK.
(12)University of California, San Francisco.
(13)University of California, Los Angeles.
(14)Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(15)Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation and University of Oklahoma Health
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City.
(16)University of Alabama at Birmingham.
(17)Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.
(18)Hospital Universitario Dr. José Eleuterio González Universidad Autonoma de
Nuevo León, Monterrey, Mexico.
(19)Hospital General de México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(20)Hospital Interzonal General de Agudos General San Martin, La Plata,
Argentina.
(21)Hospital Escuela Eva Perón, Granadero Baigorria, Argentina.
(22)Hospital Italiano de Córdoba, Córdoba, Argentina.
(23)Hospital Interzonal General de Agudos Oscar E. Alende, Mar del Plata,
Argentina.
(24)Hospital Interzonal San Juan Bautista, San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca,
Argentina.
(25)Hospital de Peditaria, Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano
del Seguro Social, Mexico City, Mexico.
(26)Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán, Mexico
City, Mexico.
(27)Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica, Mexico City, Mexico.
(28)Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán and
Instituto de Investigaciones Biomédicas de la Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
México, Mexico City, Mexico.
(29)University of California, Riverside.
(30)Sanatorio Parque, Rosario, Argentina.
(31)University of Southern California School of Medicine, Los Angeles.

OBJECTIVE: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease
with a strong genetic component. We undertook the present work to perform the
first genome-wide association study on individuals from the Americas who are
enriched for Native American heritage.
METHODS: We analyzed 3,710 individuals from the US and 4 countries of Latin
America who were diagnosed as having SLE, and healthy controls. Samples were
genotyped with HumanOmni1 BeadChip. Data on out-of-study controls genotyped with 
HumanOmni2.5 were also included. Statistical analyses were performed using
SNPtest and SNPGWA. Data were adjusted for genomic control and false discovery
rate. Imputation was performed using Impute2 and, for classic HLA alleles, HiBag.
Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) were calculated.
RESULTS: The IRF5-TNPO3 region showed the strongest association and largest OR
for SLE (rs10488631: genomic control-adjusted P [Pgcadj ] = 2.61 × 10(-29), OR
2.12 [95% CI 1.88-2.39]), followed by HLA class II on the DQA2-DQB1 loci
(rs9275572: Pgcadj  = 1.11 × 10(-16), OR 1.62 [95% CI 1.46-1.80] and rs9271366:
Pgcadj  = 6.46 × 10(-12), OR 2.06 [95% CI 1.71-2.50]). Other known SLE loci found
to be associated in this population were ITGAM, STAT4, TNIP1, NCF2, and IRAK1. We
identified a novel locus on 10q24.33 (rs4917385: Pgcadj  = 1.39 × 10(-8)) with an
expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) effect (Peqtl  = 8.0 × 10(-37) at
USMG5/miR1307), and several new suggestive loci. SLE risk loci previously
identified in Europeans and Asians were corroborated. Local ancestry estimation
showed that the HLA allele risk contribution is of European ancestral origin.
Imputation of HLA alleles suggested that autochthonous Native American haplotypes
provide protection against development of SLE.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that studying admixed populations provides
new insights in the delineation of the genetic architecture that underlies
autoimmune and complex diseases.

© 2016, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39504 
PMCID: PMC4829354
PMID: 26606652  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Dec 8;112(49):15136-41. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1520997112. Epub 2015 Nov 23.

Multifaceted contribution of the TLR4-activated IRF5 transcription factor in
systemic sclerosis.

Saigusa R(1), Asano Y(2), Taniguchi T(1), Yamashita T(1), Ichimura Y(1),
Takahashi T(1), Toyama T(1), Yoshizaki A(1), Sugawara K(3), Tsuruta D(3),
Taniguchi T(4), Sato S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan;
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine,
Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8655, Japan; yasano-tky@umin.ac.jp tada@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Abeno-ku, Osaka-shi, Osaka 545-8585, Japan;
(4)Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute of Industrial Science, The
University of Tokyo, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8505, Japan; Max Planck-The University 
of Tokyo Center for Integrative Inflammology, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8505, Japan
yasano-tky@umin.ac.jp tada@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a multisystem autoimmune disorder with clinical
manifestations resulting from tissue fibrosis and extensive vasculopathy. A
potential disease susceptibility gene for SSc is IFN regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), 
whose SNP is associated with milder clinical manifestations; however, the
underlying mechanisms of this association remain elusive. In this study we
examined IRF5-deficient (Irf5(-/-)) mice in the bleomycin-treated SSc murine
model. We show that dermal and pulmonary fibrosis induced by bleomycin is
attenuated in Irf5(-/-) mice. Interestingly, we find that multiple SSc-associated
events, such as fibroblast activation, inflammatory cell infiltration,
endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition, vascular destabilization, Th2/Th17 skewed 
immune polarization, and B-cell activation, are suppressed in these mice. We
further provide evidence that IRF5, activated by Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4),
binds to the promoters of various key genes involved in SSc disease pathology.
These observations are congruent with the high level of expression of IRF5, TLR4,
and potential endogenous TLR4 ligands in SSc skin lesions. Our study sheds light 
on the TLR4-IRF5 pathway in the pathology of SSc with clinical implications of
targeting the IRF5 pathways in the suppression of disease development.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1520997112 
PMCID: PMC4679033
PMID: 26598674  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2015 Dec;89(Pt B):168-72. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2015.10.034.
Epub 2015 Oct 30.

Low shear stress induces M1 macrophage polarization in murine thin-cap
atherosclerotic plaques.

Seneviratne AN(1), Cole JE(2), Goddard ME(2), Park I(2), Mohri Z(3), Sansom S(2),
Udalova I(2), Krams R(3), Monaco C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics,
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, United Kingdom; 
Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, United Kingdom.
(2)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics,
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London, United Kingdom.
(4)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics,
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: claudia.monaco@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2016 Feb;91:10.

Macrophages, a significant component of atherosclerotic plaques vulnerable to
acute complications, can be pro-inflammatory (designated M1), regulatory (M2),
lipid- (Mox) or Heme-induced (Mhem). We showed previously that low (LSS) and
oscillatory (OSS) shear stress cause thin-cap fibroatheroma and stable smooth
muscle cell-rich plaque formation respectively in ApoE-knockout (ApoE(-/-)) mice.
Here we investigated whether different shear stress conditions relate to specific
changes in macrophage polarization and plaque morphology by applying a shear
stress-altering cast to the carotid arteries of high fat-fed ApoE(-/-) mice. The 
M1 markers iNOS and IRF5 were highly expressed in macrophage-rich areas of LSS
lesions compared to OSS lesions 6weeks after cast placement, while the M2 marker 
Arginase-1, and Mox/Mhem markers HO-1 and CD163 were elevated in OSS lesions. Our
data indicates shear stress could be an important determinant of macrophage
polarization in atherosclerosis, with low shear promoting M1 programming.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2015.10.034 
PMID: 26523517  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. J Immunol. 2015 Dec 1;195(11):5327-36. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1501684. Epub 2015
Oct 30.

Sex Differences in Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Levels of IRF5 Drive Higher IFN-α 
Production in Women.

Griesbeck M(1), Ziegler S(2), Laffont S(3), Smith N(4), Chauveau L(5), Tomezsko
P(6), Sharei A(7), Kourjian G(6), Porichis F(6), Hart M(6), Palmer CD(6),
Sirignano M(6), Beisel C(8), Hildebrandt H(2), Cénac C(3), Villani AC(9),
Diefenbach TJ(6), Le Gall S(6), Schwartz O(5), Herbeuval JP(4), Autran B(10),
Guéry JC(3), Chang JJ(11), Altfeld M(12).

Author information: 
(1)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139; Centre
d'Immunonologie et des Maladies Infectieuses-Paris, Université Pierre et Marie
Curie/INSERM U1135, Hôpital Pitié Salpêtrière, Paris 75013, France;
(2)Heinrich Pette Institute-Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virology, Hamburg 
20246, Germany;
(3)INSERM U1043, Toulouse F-31300, France; CNRS, U5282, Toulouse F-31300, France;
Université de Toulouse, Université Paul Sabatier, Centre de Physiopathologie de
Toulouse Purpan, Toulouse F-31300, France;
(4)Chemistry and Biology, Nucleotides and Immunology for Therapy, CNRS UMR-8601, 
Université Paris Descartes, Paris 75270, France;
(5)Institut Pasteur, Unité de recherche associée CNRS 3015, Unite Virus et
Immunité, Paris 75015, France;
(6)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139;
(7)The David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Cambridge, MA
02139;
(8)Heinrich Pette Institute-Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virology, Hamburg 
20246, Germany; Medical Department, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf,
Hamburg 20246, Germany;
(9)Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139; and.
(10)Centre d'Immunonologie et des Maladies Infectieuses-Paris, Université Pierre 
et Marie Curie/INSERM U1135, Hôpital Pitié Salpêtrière, Paris 75013, France;
(11)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139; Department of
Infectious Diseases, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria 3800, Australia.
(12)Ragon Institute of MGH, MIT and Harvard, Cambridge, MA 02139; Heinrich Pette 
Institute-Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virology, Hamburg 20246, Germany;
marcus.altfeld@hpi.uni-hamburg.de.

Increased IFN-α production contributes to the pathogenesis of infectious and
autoimmune diseases. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs) from females produce
more IFN-α upon TLR7 stimulation than pDCs from males, yet the mechanisms
underlying this difference remain unclear. In this article, we show that basal
levels of IFN regulatory factor (IRF) 5 in pDCs were significantly higher in
females compared with males and positively correlated with the percentage of
IFN-α-secreting pDCs. Delivery of recombinant IRF5 protein into human primary
pDCs increased TLR7-mediated IFN-α secretion. In mice, genetic ablation of the
estrogen receptor 1 (Esr1) gene in the hematopoietic compartment or DC lineage
reduced Irf5 mRNA expression in pDCs and IFN-α production. IRF5 mRNA levels
furthermore correlated with ESR1 mRNA levels in human pDCs, consistent with IRF5 
regulation at the transcriptional level by ESR1. Taken together, these data
demonstrate a critical mechanism by which sex differences in basal pDC IRF5
expression lead to higher IFN-α production upon TLR7 stimulation in females and
provide novel targets for the modulation of immune responses and inflammation.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1501684 
PMCID: PMC4654231
PMID: 26519527  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Virol. 2015 Oct 14;90(1):189-205. doi: 10.1128/JVI.02276-15. Print 2016 Jan 1.

Interferon-Regulatory Factor 5-Dependent Signaling Restricts Orthobunyavirus
Dissemination to the Central Nervous System.

Proenca-Modena JL(1), Hyde JL(2), Sesti-Costa R(3), Lucas T(2), Pinto AK(2),
Richner JM(2), Gorman MJ(4), Lazear HM(5), Diamond MS(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri, USA Department of Genetics, Evolution and Bioagents, Institute of
Biology, University of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil.
(2)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology & Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA Department of Biochemistry and Immunology,
University of São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto School of Medicine, Ribeirão Preto,
Brazil.
(4)Department of Pathology & Immunology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri, USA Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of North
Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA.
(6)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Missouri, USA Department of Pathology & Immunology, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA Department of Molecular Microbiology,
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA Center for
Human Immunology and Immunotherapy Programs, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA diamond@wusm.wustl.edu.

Interferon (IFN)-regulatory factor 5 (IRF-5) is a transcription factor that
induces inflammatory responses after engagement and signaling by pattern
recognition receptors. To define the role of IRF-5 during bunyavirus infection,
we evaluated Oropouche virus (OROV) and La Crosse virus (LACV) pathogenesis and
immune responses in primary cells and in mice with gene deletions in Irf3, Irf5, 
and Irf7 or in Irf5 alone. Deletion of Irf3, Irf5, and Irf7 together resulted in 
uncontrolled viral replication in the liver and spleen, hypercytokinemia,
extensive liver injury, and an early-death phenotype. Remarkably, deletion of
Irf5 alone resulted in meningoencephalitis and death on a more protracted
timeline, 1 to 2 weeks after initial OROV or LACV infection. The clinical signs
in OROV-infected Irf5(-/-) mice were associated with abundant viral antigen and
terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling
(TUNEL)-positive cells in several regions of the brain. Circulating dendritic
cell (DC) subsets in Irf5(-/-) mice had higher levels of OROV RNA in vivo yet
produced lower levels of type I IFN than wild-type (WT) cells. This result was
supported by data obtained in vitro, since a deficiency of IRF-5 resulted in
enhanced OROV infection and diminished type I IFN production in bone
marrow-derived DCs. Collectively, these results indicate a key role for IRF-5 in 
modulating the host antiviral response in peripheral organs that controls
bunyavirus neuroinvasion in mice.IMPORTANCE: Oropouche virus (OROV) and La Crosse
virus (LACV) are orthobunyaviruses that are transmitted by insects and cause
meningitis and encephalitis in subsets of individuals in the Americas. Recently, 
we demonstrated that components of the type I interferon (IFN) induction pathway,
particularly the regulatory transcription factors IRF-3 and IRF-7, have key
protective roles during OROV infection. However, the lethality in Irf3(-/-)
Irf7(-/-) (DKO) mice infected with OROV was not as rapid or complete as observed 
in Ifnar(-/-) mice, indicating that other transcriptional factors associated with
an IFN response contribute to antiviral immunity against OROV. Here, we evaluated
bunyavirus replication, tissue tropism, and cytokine production in primary cells 
and mice lacking IRF-5. We demonstrate an important role for IRF-5 in preventing 
neuroinvasion and the ensuing encephalitis caused by OROV and LACV.

Copyright © 2015, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.02276-15 
PMCID: PMC4702527
PMID: 26468541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Eur J Neurol. 2016 Jan;23(1):140-7. doi: 10.1111/ene.12821. Epub 2015 Oct 9.

Immune response induced by Epstein-Barr virus and Mycobacterium avium subsp.
paratuberculosis peptides in current and past infectious mononucleosis: a risk
for multiple sclerosis?

Mameli G(1), Madeddu G(2), Cossu D(1), Galleri G(3), Manetti R(3), Babudieri
S(2), Mura MS(2), Sechi LA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(2)Unit of Infectious Diseases, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Infectious mononucleosis (IM) caused by Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) has been associated with increased risk of multiple sclerosis (MS).
However, the mechanism linking these pathologies is unclear. Different reports
indicate the association of EBV, and recently Mycobacterium avium subsp.
paratuberculosis (MAP), with MS. For a better understanding of the role of these 
pathogens, the host response induced by selected antigenic peptides in subjects
with a history of IM that significantly increases the risk of MS was
investigated.
METHODS: Both humoral and cell-mediated response against peptides able to induce 
a specific immune activation in MS patients deriving from lytic and latent EBV
antigens BOLF1(305-320), EBNA1(400-413), from MAP MAP_4027(18-32),
MAP_0106c(121-132) and from human proteins IRF5(424-434) and MBP(85-98) in
subjects with current and past IM were examined.
RESULTS: EBNA1 and MAP_0106c peptides were able to induce a humoral immune
response in subjects with a history of clinical IM in an independent manner.
Moreover, these peptides were capable of inducing pro-inflammatory cytokine
interferon γ by CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes and interleukin 6 and tumour necrosis
factor α by CD14+ monocyte cells.
CONCLUSION: Our results highlight that EBV and MAP may be involved independently 
in the same causal process leading to MS in subjects with a history of IM.

© 2015 EAN.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.12821 
PMID: 26453465  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Ann Rheum Dis. 2016 Sep;75(9):1687-92. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-207601. Epub
2015 Oct 6.

Genetic variants in ANCA-associated vasculitis: a meta-analysis.

Rahmattulla C(1), Mooyaart AL(1), van Hooven D(1), Schoones JW(2), Bruijn JA(1), 
Dekkers OM(3); European Vasculitis Genetics Consortium, Bajema IM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The
Netherlands.
(2)Walaeus Library, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden,
The Netherlands Department of Medicine, Division Endocrinology, Leiden University
Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands Department of Clinical Epidemiology,
Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Genetic factors may influence the pathogenic pathways leading to
antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)-associated vasculitis (AAV). We
performed a meta-analysis to determine the genetic variants most likely
associated with AAV and investigated whether diagnostic and serological subtypes 
within AAV have distinct genetic backgrounds.
METHODS: Studies investigating the association between genetic variants and AAV
in humans were searched in PubMed, EMBASE and Web of Science. All variants
investigated in at least two studies were selected. Subsequently, all studies
assessing these variants were included in this meta-analysis. Additionally, data 
on these variants from the largest genome-wide association studies in AAV were
included to increase the validity of this meta-analysis.
RESULTS: The literature search yielded 5180 articles. 62 articles investigating
140 genetic variants were included, 33 of which were associated with AAV in a
meta-analysis. These genetic variants were in or near the following genes: CD226,
CTLA-4, FCGR2A, HLA-B, HLA-DP, HLA-DQ, HLA-DR, HSD17B8, IRF5, PTPN22, RING1/RXRB,
RXRB, STAT4, SERPINA1 and TLR9. Moreover, we identified genetic distinctions
between granulomatosis with polyangiitis and microscopic polyangiitis and between
proteinase 3 ANCA vasculitis and myeloperoxidase ANCA vasculitis. In 76% of the
genetic variants, subdivision based on ANCA serotype resulted in higher ORs than 
subdivision based on clinical diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis identified 33 genetic variants associated with
AAV, supporting a role for alpha-1-antitrypsin, the major histocompatibility
complex system, and several distinct inflammatory processes in AAV pathogenesis. 
Our results indicate that subdivision of AAV based on ANCA serotype has a
stronger genetic basis than subdivision based on clinical diagnosis.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not
already granted under a licence) please go to
http://www.bmj.com/company/products-services/rights-and-licensing/

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2015-207601 
PMID: 26443607  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. PLoS One. 2015 Oct 6;10(10):e0138770. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138770.
eCollection 2015.

Host Transcriptional Profiles and Immunopathologic Response following
Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis Infection in Mice.

Shin MK(1), Park H(2), Shin SW(2), Jung M(2), Lee SH(3), Kim DY(3), Yoo HS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Korea; Department of Microbiology, Gyeonsang National
University School of Medicine, Jinju, Korea.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Veterinary Pathology, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Infectious Diseases, College of Veterinary Medicine, Seoul
National University, Seoul, Korea; Institute of Green Bio Science and Technology,
Seoul National University, Pyeongchang, Korea.

Paratuberculosis or Johne's disease is a chronic granulomatous enteropathy in
ruminants caused by Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) infection. 
In the present study, we examined the host response to MAP infection in spleens
of mice in order to investigate the host immunopathology accompanying
host-pathogen interaction. Transcriptional profiles of the MAP-infected mice at 3
and 6 weeks p.i. showed severe histopathological changes, whereas those at 12
weeks p.i. displayed reduced lesion severity in the spleen and liver.
MAP-infected mice at 3 and 6 weeks p.i. showed up-regulation of
interferon-related genes, scavenger receptor, and complement components,
suggesting an initial innate immune reaction, such as macrophage activation,
bactericidal activity, and macrophage invasion of MAP. Concurrently, MAP-infected
mice at 3 and 6 weeks p.i. were also suggested to express M2 macrophage phenotype
with up-regulation of Mrc1, and Marco and down-regulation of MHC class II, Ccr7, 
and Irf5, and canonical pathways related to the T cell response including
ICOS-ICOSL signaling in T helper cells, calcium-induced T lymphocyte apoptosis,
and CD28 signaling in T helper cell. These results provide information which
furthers the understanding of the immunopathologic response to MAP infection in
mice, thereby providing insights valuable for research into the pathogenesis for 
MAP infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0138770 
PMCID: PMC4595071
PMID: 26439498  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2016 Jan;22(1):13-9. doi: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000000584.

Identification of Ten Additional Susceptibility Loci for Ulcerative Colitis
Through Immunochip Analysis in Koreans.

Ye BD(1), Choi H, Hong M, Yun WJ, Low HQ, Haritunians T, Kim KJ, Park SH, Lee I, 
Bang SY, Kim TH, Shin HD, Kang D, Youn HS, Li Y, Liu J, McGovern DP, Yang SK,
Song K.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Gastroenterology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea; †Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea; ‡The F. Widjaja
Foundation Inflammatory Bowel and Immunobiology Research Institute; Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California; §Department of Pathology, Asan Medical
Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea; ‖Department of
Rheumatology, Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic Diseases, Seoul, Korea;
¶Department of Life Science, Sogang University, Seoul, Korea; **Department of
Preventive Medicine, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea;
††Department of Pediatrics, Gyeongsang National University School of Medicine,
Jinju, Korea; and ‡‡Human Genetics, Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore.

BACKGROUND: Recent genetic association studies identified more than 160
susceptibility loci for inflammatory bowel disease in Caucasian populations, but 
studies in Asian populations are limited. We have previously reported 3 loci
associated with Korean ulcerative colitis (UC).
METHODS: Using the Immunochip custom single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) array 
designed for dense genotyping of 186 known disease loci from 12 immune-mediated
diseases, we analyzed 705 patients with UC and 1178 controls for 536,821 SNPs
(89,057 genotyped and 447,764 imputed) in the discovery stage followed by
replication in additional 980 affected individuals and 2694 controls in a Korean 
population.
RESULTS: We confirmed the associations of 10 known UC risk loci in Koreans:
rs76418789 in IL23R (combined P = 1.25 × 10), rs4728142 in IRF5 (combined P =
3.17 × 10), rs1830610 near JAK2 (combined P = 2.28 × 10), rs1555791 near TNFRSF14
(combined P = 1.62 × 10), rs880790 between IL10-IL19 (combined P = 3.73 × 10),
rs10185424 between IL1R2-IL1R1 (combined P = 1.54 × 10), rs6478108 in TNFSF15
(combined P = 9.28 × 10), rs861857 between UBE2L3-YDJC (combined P = 3.05 × 10), 
rs1801274 in FCGR2A (discovery P = 1.54 × 10), and rs17085007 between GPR12-USP12
(discovery P = 3.64 × 10). The percentage of phenotype variance explained by the 
13 risk loci (including 3 previously reported loci) was 5.61% in Koreans (on the 
liability scale, population prevalence = 0.0308%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study increased the number of UC susceptibility loci in Koreans 
to 13 and highlighted the extensive sharing of genetic risk across populations of
UC.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000000584 
PMID: 26398853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2015 Sep-Oct;33(5):632-8. Epub 2015 Aug 31.

Association of GTF2I and GTF2IRD1 polymorphisms with systemic lupus erythematosus
in a Chinese Han population.

Li Y(1), Li P(2), Chen S(2), Wu Z(2), Li J(2), Zhang S(2), Cao C(2), Wang L(2),
Liu B(3), Zhang F(2), Li YZ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Rheumatology & Clin.Immunology, Chinese Academy Med. Sciences & Peking Union
Med.College, Key Lab.of Rheumatology & Clin.Immunology, Ministry of Education,
Beijing; and Dept. Rheumatology, Affiliated Hosp. of Qingdao Univ. Med.College,
Shangdong, China.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Peking Union Medical
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical
College, Key Laboratory of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Ministry of
Education, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University
Medical College, Shangdong, China.

OBJECTIVES: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is the most common systemic
autoimmune disease which likely involves complex interactions between genes and
the environment. Two large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have
implicated many loci as genetic risk factors associated with primary Sjögren's
syndrome (pSS). Among them there are a number of pSS associated gene
polymorphisms including the MHC-II, STAT4, IRF5, BLK, and TNIP1 genes that are
shared with SLE. However, the association of other genes such as GTF2I, GTF2IRD1,
and IL12A with SLE remain unknown. This study aimed to determine whether single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GTF2I, GTF2IRD1 or IL12A genetically
predispose a Chinese Han population to SLE.
METHODS: Four SNPs in the GTF2I region (rs117026326), the GTF2IRD1 region
(rs4717901), and the IL12A region (rs485497, rs583911) were genotyped in a cohort
of 948 SLE patients and 938 healthy controls, using the polymerase chain
reaction-ligation detection reaction (PCR-LDR) method.
RESULTS: he frequency of risk allele of rs117026326 was notably higher in SLE
patients than in controls (37.2% vs. 14.9%, OR: 3.39, 95%CI: 2.89-3.97, pc
=3.31×10-54). Similarly, rs4717901 was also associated with SLE (35.3% vs. 20.2%,
OR: 2.16, 95%CI: 1.86-2.50, pc =1.50×10-24). The frequencies of alleles and
genotypes of IL12A SNPs were not significantly different between the SLE patients
and controls.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates a significant association between SLE and
the GTF2I rs117026326 T allele, GTF2IRD1 rs4717901 C allele. The association of
GTF2I and GTF2IRD1 as common genetic susceptibility factor in SLE will require
further validation in other ethnic lines.


PMID: 26320362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2015 Dec;67(12):3146-57. doi: 10.1002/art.39321.

Promotion of Inflammatory Arthritis by Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 in a Mouse 
Model.

Duffau P(1), Menn-Josephy H(2), Cuda CM(3), Dominguez S(3), Aprahamian TR(2),
Watkins AA(2), Yasuda K(2), Monach P(2), Lafyatis R(2), Rice LM(2), Kenneth
Haines G 3rd(4), Gravallese EM(5), Baum R(5), Richez C(6), Perlman H(3), Bonegio 
RG(2), Rifkin IR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, and Hôpital
Saint-André, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Bordeaux and Université de
Bordeaux, CNRS UMR 5164, Bordeaux, France.
(2)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(4)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.
(5)University of Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester.
(6)Hôpital Pellegrin, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Bordeaux, and
Université de Bordeaux, CNRS UMR 5164, Bordeaux, France.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2015 Oct;11(10):562.

OBJECTIVE: Polymorphisms in the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor
5 (IRF5) are associated with an increased risk of developing rheumatoid arthritis
(RA). This study was undertaken to determine the role of IRF5 in a mouse model of
arthritis development.
METHODS: K/BxN serum-transfer arthritis was induced in mice deficient in IRF5, or
lacking IRF5 only in myeloid cells, and arthritis severity was evaluated. K/BxN
arthritis was also induced in mice deficient in TRIF, Toll-like receptor 2
(TLR2), TLR3, TLR4, and TLR7 to determine the pathways through which IRF5 might
promote arthritis. In vitro studies were performed to determine the role of IRF5 
in interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor and TLR signaling.
RESULTS: Arthritis severity was reduced in IRF5-deficient, TRIF-deficient,
TLR3-deficient, and TLR7-deficient mice. The expression of multiple genes
regulating neutrophil recruitment or function and bioactive IL-1β formation was
reduced in the joints during active arthritis in IRF5-deficient mice. In vitro
studies showed that TLR7 and the TRIF-dependent TLR3 pathway induce
proinflammatory cytokine production in disease-relevant cell types in an
IRF5-dependent manner.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that IRF5 contributes to disease pathogenesis
in inflammatory arthritis. This is likely due at least in part to the role of
IRF5 in mediating proinflammatory cytokine production downstream of TLR7 and
TLR3. Since TLR7 and TLR3 are both RNA-sensing TLRs, this suggests that
endogenous RNA ligands present in the inflamed joint promote arthritis
development. These findings may be relevant to human RA, since RNA capable of
activating TLR7 and TLR3 is present in synovial fluid and TLR7 and TLR3 are
up-regulated in the joints of RA patients.

© 2015, American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.39321 
PMCID: PMC4661118
PMID: 26315890  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Inflamm Res. 2015 Oct;64(10):817-24. doi: 10.1007/s00011-015-0865-2. Epub 2015
Aug 21.

Genetic association and interaction between the IRF5 and TYK2 genes and systemic 
lupus erythematosus in the Han Chinese population.

Tang L(1)(2), Wan P(3), Wang Y(4), Pan J(4), Wang Y(5), Chen B(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, Institute of
Neuroscience, Changsha Medical University, Changsha, People's Republic of China. 
tlcool318@163.com.
(2)School of Basic Medical Science, Changsha Medical University, Changsha,
410219, People's Republic of China. tlcool318@163.com.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Second School of Clinical Medicine, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Biological Science and Biotechnology, School of Chemistry,
Chemical Engineering and Life Sciences, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan,
430070, People's Republic of China.
(5)School of Basic Medical Science, Changsha Medical University, Changsha,
410219, People's Republic of China.
(6)Department of Biological Science and Biotechnology, School of Chemistry,
Chemical Engineering and Life Sciences, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan,
430070, People's Republic of China. cbifeng@whut.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this case-control study was to investigate whether
polymorphisms and gene-gene interactions of the two type I interferon (IFN) genes
(IRF5 and TYK2) are the susceptible factors of systemic Lupus erythematosus (SLE)
in the Han Chinese population.
METHODS: The four variants [rs2004640, rs2070197, rs10954213 and exon6
insertion/deletion (in/de)] of IRF5 gene and five single-nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) (rs280500, rs280519, rs2304256, rs8108236, rs12720270) of TYK2 gene were
examined in a cohort of 642 SLE patients and 642 healthy controls. Genotyping was
conducted using polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length
polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and confirmed by direct sequencing in 10 % sample
randomly.
RESULTS: Rs2070197 was not polymorphic in this study, and was excluded in further
analysis. Significant association was found for loci on IRF5 (rs2004640: p =
0.0003, p corr = 0.0012) and TYK2 (rs280500: p = 8.83 × 10(-6), p corr = 4.41 ×
10(-5); rs2304256: p = 3.71 × 10(-6), p corr = 1.85 × 10(-5); rs8108236: p =
0.0004, p corr = 0.002), but not for other SNPs. Significant association was also
observed for genotypes of IRF5 (rs2004640, p = 0.0009, p corr = 0.0036) and TYK2 
SNPs (rs280500: p = 5.21 × 10(-5), p corr = 2.61 × 10(-4); rs2304256: p = 7.72 × 
10(-6), p corr = 3.86 × 10(-5); rs8108236: p = 0.002, p corr = 0.01).
Nevertheless, two haplotypes based on the 3 variants [exon6(in/de), rs10954213,
rs2004640] of IRF5 (DAG and IAT) could define protective or susceptibility
haplotype in SLE. Similarly, three haplotypes containing 5 SNPs (rs280500,
rs280519, rs2304256, rs8108236, rs12720270) of TYK2 (GATAT, AGGAT and GAGGT) may 
also be associated with SLE in Han Chinese. Additionally, the gene-gene
interaction analysis was conducted on the IRF5 and TYK2 SNPs. And a three-way
interaction between TYK2 rs280500, rs2304256 and IRF5 rs10954213 and SLE was
found (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Genetic associations and gene-gene interactions of IRF5 and TYK2
were significantly detected in Han Chinese with SLE. Our results had important
implications for future research on the role of type I IFN function in SLE
susceptibility.

DOI: 10.1007/s00011-015-0865-2 
PMID: 26294277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Sep 1;112(35):11001-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1506254112. Epub 2015 Aug 17.

IRF5 controls both acute and chronic inflammation.

Weiss M(1), Byrne AJ(2), Blazek K(1), Saliba DG(1), Pease JE(3), Perocheau D(1), 
Feldmann M(4), Udalova IA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7FY,
United Kingdom;
(2)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7FY,
United Kingdom; National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, London SW7
2AZ, United Kingdom.
(3)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, London SW7 2AZ, United
Kingdom.
(4)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7FY,
United Kingdom; irina.udalova@kennedy.ox.ac.uk marc.feldmann@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.

Whereas the importance of macrophages in chronic inflammatory diseases is well
recognized, there is an increasing awareness that neutrophils may also play an
important role. In addition to the well-documented heterogeneity of macrophage
phenotypes and functions, neutrophils also show remarkable phenotypic diversity
among tissues. Understanding the molecular pathways that control this
heterogeneity should provide abundant scope for the generation of more specific
and effective therapeutics. We have shown that the transcription factor IFN
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) polarizes macrophages toward an inflammatory
phenotype. IRF5 is also expressed in other myeloid cells, including neutrophils, 
where it was linked to neutrophil function. In this study we explored the role of
IRF5 in models of acute inflammation, including antigen-induced inflammatory
arthritis and lung injury, both involving an extensive influx of neutrophils.
Mice lacking IRF5 accumulate far fewer neutrophils at the site of inflammation
due to the reduced levels of chemokines important for neutrophil recruitment,
such as the chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 1. Furthermore we found that
neutrophils express little IRF5 in the joints and that their migratory properties
are not affected by the IRF5 deficiency. These studies extend prior ones
suggesting that inhibiting IRF5 might be useful for chronic macrophage-induced
inflammation and suggest that IRF5 blockade would ameliorate more acute forms of 
inflammation, including lung injury.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1506254112 
PMCID: PMC4568217
PMID: 26283380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Oncogene. 2016 May 12;35(19):2542-6. doi: 10.1038/onc.2015.308. Epub 2015 Aug 17.

Onco-exaptation of an endogenous retroviral LTR drives IRF5 expression in Hodgkin
lymphoma.

Babaian A(1)(2), Romanish MT(1)(2), Gagnier L(1)(2), Kuo LY(1), Karimi MM(2)(3), 
Steidl C(4)(5), Mager DL(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Terry Fox Laboratory, British Columbia Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver,
British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Biomedical Research Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada.
(4)Department of Lymphoid Cancer Research, British Columbia Cancer Agency,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

The transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is upregulated in 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and is a key regulator of the aberrant transcriptome
characteristic of this disease. Here we show that IRF5 upregulation in HL is
driven by transcriptional activation of a normally dormant endogenous retroviral 
LOR1a long terminal repeat (LTR) upstream of IRF5. Specifically, through
screening of RNA-sequencing libraries, we detected LTR-IRF5 chimeric transcripts 
in multiple HL cell lines but not in normal B-cell controls. In HL, the LTR was
in an open and hypomethylated epigenetic state, and we further show the LTR is
the site of transcriptional initiation. Among HL cell lines, usage of the LTR
promoter strongly correlates with overall levels of IRF5 mRNA and protein,
indicating that LTR transcriptional awakening is a major contributor to IRF5
upregulation in HL. Taken together, oncogenic IRF5 overexpression in HL is the
result of a specific LTR transcriptional activation. We propose that such LTR
derepression is a distinct mechanism of oncogene activation ('onco-exaptation'), 
and that such a mechanism warrants further investigation in molecular and cancer 
research.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2015.308 
PMID: 26279299  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Clin Rheumatol. 2015 Sep;34(9):1495-501. doi: 10.1007/s10067-015-3036-5. Epub
2015 Aug 2.

Association of the IRF5 rs2070197 polymorphism with systemic lupus erythematosus:
a meta-analysis.

Li Y(1), Chen S, Li P, Wu Z, Li J, Liu B, Zhang F, Li Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Peking Union Medical
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical
College, Key Laboratory of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Ministry of
Education, Beijing, China.

The aim of this study was to explore whether the interferon regulatory factor 5
(IRF5) gene rs2070197 polymorphism was associated with systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE) in multiple ethic populations. A meta-analysis was conducted 
on the C allele of the IRF5 rs2070197 polymorphism. A total of 7 published
case-control studies with 12 comparisons involving 8171 SLE patients and 8904
controls were available for this meta-analysis. This meta-analysis demonstrated
the IRF5 rs2070197 polymorphism conferred susceptibility to SLE in all subjects
(odds ratio (OR) = 2.128, 95 % confidence interval (CI): 1.856-2.441, P < 0.001) 
without inter-study heterogeneity. The IRF5 rs2070197 polymorphism was identified
as risk factors for SLE in Caucasian populations (OR 1.82, 95 % CI 1.70-1.96),
but it had no effects (monomorphic) in Asians. Large-scale multicenter
epidemiological studies in selected populations with other risk factors were
urgently required.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-015-3036-5 
PMID: 26233721  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Int J Clin Exp Med. 2015 May 15;8(5):7872-80. eCollection 2015.

Associations of genetic polymorphisms of TLR5, TLR9 and transduction molecules in
MyD88 signaling pathway with systemic lupus erythematosus in Zhuang and Han
ethnics of Guangxi province, China.

Wen SJ(1), Wu FY(1), Fang L(2), Liu H(1), Zheng WJ(1), Lin YK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Dermatology, First Affiliated Hospital of Guangxi Medical
University Nanning 530021, China.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Genetics, Guangxi Medical University Nanning
530021, China.

OBJECTIVES: To discuss the associations of SNPs of TLR5, TLR9 and transduction
molecules in MyD88 signaling pathway with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) risk
in Zhuang and Han ethnics and to compare the difference between the two ethnics.
METHODS: PCR and direct sequencing method were used to detect gene polymorphisms 
of TLR5, TLR9 and transduction molecules in MyD88 signaling pathway in 77
patients with SLE and 72 healthy controls, in order to explore their
relationships with SLE incidence and compare the differences in genotypes and
allele frequencies between groups.
RESULTS: TLR5 rs5744168 gene polymorphism was unrelated with SLE susceptibility
of Guangxi Zhuang and Han. Among the Han population, there was a statistically
significant difference in TLR9 rs352140 genotype frequency between SLE group and 
control group (P = 0.043). In the Han and Zhuang populations, there were no
significant differences in MyD88 rs7744 genotype and allele frequencies (all P > 
0.05) between SLE group and control group; but there was a statistically
significant difference in allele frequencies between the case group and the
control group (P = 0.033). For TRAF6 rs5030472, GA + AA genotype frequency of
Zhuang SLE group was significantly higher than that of control group and the
difference was statistically significant (P = 0.006); an allele frequency was
also significantly higher. IRF5 rs2004640 GG/TT genotype and the corresponding G 
allele frequencies of Zhuang SLE group were significantly higher than that of
control group, with statistically significant differences (P = 0.008 and P =
0.000, respectively).
CONCLUSION: TLR5 rs5744168 gene polymorphism may have no correlation with SLE
susceptibility in Guangxi Zhuang and Han populations; TLR9 rs352140 gene
polymorphism may be associated with SLE susceptibility in Guangxi Han population,
while TRAF6 rs5030472 and IRF5 rs2004640 gene polymorphisms may relate to SLE
susceptibility in Guangxi Zhuang population.


PMCID: PMC4509288
PMID: 26221343 


71. Transl Res. 2016 Jan;167(1):167-82. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2015.06.018. Epub 2015
Jul 4.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 in human autoimmunity and murine models of
autoimmune disease.

Eames HL(1), Corbin AL(2), Udalova IA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: hayley.eames@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom.
(3)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics
Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, United
Kingdom. Electronic address: irina.udalova@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has been demonstrated as a key
transcription factor of the immune system, playing important roles in modulating 
inflammatory immune responses in numerous cell types including dendritic cells,
macrophages, and B cells. As well as driving the expression of type I interferon 
in antiviral responses, IRF5 is also crucial for driving macrophages toward a
proinflammatory phenotype by regulating cytokine and chemokine expression and
modulating B-cell maturity and antibody production. This review highlights the
functional importance of IRF5 in a disease setting, by discussing polymorphic
mutations at the human Irf5 locus that lead to susceptibility to systemic lupus
erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, and inflammatory bowel disease. In
concordance with this, we also discuss lessons in IRF5 functionality learned from
murine in vivo models of autoimmune disease and inflammation and hypothesize that
modulation of IRF5 activity and expression could provide potential therapeutic
benefits in the clinic.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trsl.2015.06.018 
PMID: 26207886  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Aug 4;112(31):E4272-80. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1423449112. Epub 2015 Jul 20.

Keap1 regulates inflammatory signaling in Mycobacterium avium-infected human
macrophages.

Awuh JA(1), Haug M(1), Mildenberger J(2), Marstad A(1), Do CP(1), Louet C(1),
Stenvik J(1), Steigedal M(1), Damås JK(3), Halaas Ø(4), Flo TH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; Department of Cancer Research and Molecular
Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway;
(2)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; Department of Technology, University College 
of Sør-Trøndelag, 7004 Trondheim, Norway;
(3)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; Department of Cancer Research and Molecular
Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway;
Department of Infectious Diseases, St. Olavs Hospital, 7006 Trondheim, Norway.
(4)Department of Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway;
(5)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Norwegian University of Science and
Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; Department of Cancer Research and Molecular
Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway;
trude.flo@ntnu.no.

Several mechanisms are involved in controlling intracellular survival of
pathogenic mycobacteria in host macrophages, but how these mechanisms are
regulated remains poorly understood. We report a role for Kelch-like
ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1), an oxidative stress sensor, in regulating
inflammation induced by infection with Mycobacterium avium in human primary
macrophages. By using confocal microscopy, we found that Keap1 associated with
mycobacterial phagosomes in a time-dependent manner, whereas siRNA-mediated
knockdown of Keap1 increased M. avium-induced expression of inflammatory
cytokines and type I interferons (IFNs). We show evidence of a mechanism whereby 
Keap1, as part of an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with Cul3 and Rbx1, facilitates 
ubiquitination and degradation of IκB kinase (IKK)-β thus terminating IKK
activity. Keap1 knockdown led to increased nuclear translocation of transcription
factors NF-κB, IFN regulatory factor (IRF) 1, and IRF5 driving the expression of 
inflammatory cytokines and IFN-β. Furthermore, knockdown of other members of the 
Cul3 ubiquitin ligase complex also led to increased cytokine expression, further 
implicating this ligase complex in the regulation of the IKK family. Finally,
increased inflammatory responses in Keap1-silenced cells contributed to decreased
intracellular growth of M. avium in primary human macrophages that was
reconstituted with inhibitors of IKKβ or TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). Taken
together, we propose that Keap1 acts as a negative regulator for the control of
inflammatory signaling in M. avium-infected human primary macrophages. Although
this might be important to avoid sustained or overwhelming inflammation, our data
suggest that a negative consequence could be facilitated growth of pathogens like
M. avium inside macrophages.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1423449112 
PMCID: PMC4534286
PMID: 26195781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Chin Med J (Engl). 2015 Jul 5;128(13):1743-7. doi: 10.4103/0366-6999.159347.

Variants of Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 are Associated with Neither
Neuromyelitis Optica Nor Multiple Sclerosis in the Southeastern Han Chinese
Population.

Liu QB, Wu L, Zhao GX, Cai PP, Li ZX, Wu ZY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Institute of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital,
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, Fujian 350005; Department of Neurology,
Research Center of Neurology in Second Affiliated Hospital, and The Collaborative
Innovation Center for Brain Science, Zhejiang University School of Medicine,
Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009; Department of Neurology, Institute of Neurology,
Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200040,
China.

BACKGROUND: Neuromyelitis optica (NMO) and multiple sclerosis (MS) are
demyelinating disorders of the central nervous system. Interferon regulatory
factor 5 (IRF5) is a common susceptibility gene to different autoimmune
disorders. However, the association of IRF5 variants with NMO and MS patients has
not been well studied. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate whether IRF5 variants were
associated with NMO and MS in the Southeastern Han Chinese population.
METHODS: Four single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected and genotyped 
by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry
in 111 NMO patients, 145 MS patients and 300 controls from Southeastern China.
RESULTS: None of these 4 SNPs was associated with NMO or MS patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our preliminary study indicates that genetic variants in IRF5 may
affect neither NMO nor MS in the Southeastern Han Chinese population. Further
studies with a large sample size and diverse ancestry populations are needed to
clarify this issue.

DOI: 10.4103/0366-6999.159347 
PMCID: PMC4733726
PMID: 26112714  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Hum Immunol. 2015 Jul;76(7):525-31. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2015.06.001. Epub 2015 
Jun 17.

IRF5, PTPN22, CD28, IL2RA, KIF5A, BLK and TNFAIP3 genes polymorphisms and lupus
susceptibility in a cohort from the Egypt Delta; relation to other ethnic groups.

Elghzaly AA(1), Metwally SS(2), El-Chennawi FA(3), Elgayaar MA(4), Mosaad YM(5), 
El-Toraby EE(6), Hegab MM(7), Ibrahim SM(8).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University,
Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: drashrafantar@mans.edu.eg.
(2)Clinical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University,
Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: shereen_salah@ymail.com.
(3)Clinical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University,
Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: dr_farha@mans.edu.eg.
(4)Dermatology and Andrology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura
University, Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: elgayar_m@yahoo.com.
(5)Clinical Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University,
Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: youssefmosaad@yahoo.com.
(6)Internal Medicine Department, Faculty of Medicine, Mansoura University,
Mansoura, Egypt. Electronic address: Ehabeltoraby@yahoo.com.
(7)Molecular Medicine Group, Department of Reproductive Medicine, Division of
Medical Research, National Research Center, Egypt. Electronic address:
mohsenhegab@gmail.com.
(8)Dermatology Department, Lübeck University, Lübeck, Germany. Electronic
address: Saleh.Ibrahim@uksh.de.

OBJECTIVE: To replicate a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) of known genes for
lupus (IRF5 rs10488631, PTPN22 rs2476601, BLK rs2736340 and TNFAIP3 rs5029939)
and other autoimmune diseases (CD28 rs1980422, IL2RA rs2104286 and KIF5A
rs1678542) on a newly studied Egyptian cohort to investigate the genetic
disparity with different studied ethnic groups in relation to lupus
susceptibility.
METHODS: 170 Egyptian patients from Egypt Delta with SLE and 241 matched healthy 
controls were genotyped by Taqman real time PCR for the selected SNPs.
RESULTS: The results revealed significant association with IRF5 (p<0.0001) and
PTPN22 (p=0.008) and insignificant association with KIF5A, CD28, IL2RA, BLK and
TNFAIP3 genes.
CONCLUSIONS: This study may provide an additional evidence for the association
between IRF5 and PTPN22 and lupus susceptibility and may exclude it for CD28,
IL2RA, and KIF5A.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics.
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26092158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Immunol. 2015 Aug 1;195(3):1100-11. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1403176. Epub 2015
Jun 17.

TLR8 Senses Staphylococcus aureus RNA in Human Primary Monocytes and Macrophages 
and Induces IFN-β Production via a TAK1-IKKβ-IRF5 Signaling Pathway.

Bergstrøm B(1), Aune MH(1), Awuh JA(1), Kojen JF(1), Blix KJ(1), Ryan L(1), Flo
TH(1), Mollnes TE(2), Espevik T(1), Stenvik J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Department of Cancer Research and
Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim
N-7491, Norway;
(2)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Department of Cancer Research and
Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim
N-7491, Norway; Department of Immunology, Oslo University Hospital
Rikshospitalet, Oslo N-0027, Norway; K.G. Jebsen Inflammation Research Center,
University of Oslo, Oslo N-0027, Norway; Research Laboratory, Nordland Hospital, 
Bodø N-8092, Norway; and Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tromsø,
Tromsø N-9037, Norway.
(3)Centre of Molecular Inflammation Research, Department of Cancer Research and
Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim
N-7491, Norway; jorgen.stenvik@ntnu.no.

Staphylococcus aureus may cause serious infections and is one of the most lethal 
and common causes of sepsis. TLR2 has been described as the main pattern
recognition receptor that senses S. aureus and elicits production of
proinflammatory cytokines via MyD88 -: NF-κB signaling. S. aureus can also induce
the production of IFN-β, a cytokine that requires IFN regulatory factors (IRFs)
for its transcription, but the signaling mechanism for IFN-β induction by S.
aureus are unclear. Surprisingly, we demonstrate that activation of TLR2 by
lipoproteins does not contribute to IFN-β production but instead can suppress the
induction of IFN-β in human primary monocytes and monocyte-derived macrophages.
The production of IFN-β was induced by TLR8-mediated sensing of S. aureus RNA,
which triggered IRF5 nuclear accumulation, and this could be antagonized by
concomitant TLR2 signaling. The TLR8-mediated activation of IRF5 was dependent on
TAK1 and IκB kinase (IKK)β, which thus reveals a physiological role of the
recently described IRF5-activating function of IKKβ. TLR8 -: IRF5 signaling was
necessary for induction of IFN-β and IL-12 by S. aureus, and it also contributed 
to the induction of TNF. In conclusion, our study demonstrates a physiological
role of TLR8 in the sensing of entire S. aureus in human primary phagocytes,
including the induction of IFN-β and IL-12 production via a TAK1 -: IKKβ -: IRF5 
pathway that can be inhibited by TLR2 signaling.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1403176 
PMID: 26085680  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Inflammation. 2015 Dec;38(6):2067-75. doi: 10.1007/s10753-015-0188-z.

Anti-Citrullinated Protein Antibodies Induce Macrophage Subset Disequilibrium in 
RA Patients.

Zhu W(1)(2)(3), Li X(4), Fang S(5)(3), Zhang X(2), Wang Y(4), Zhang T(1), Li
Z(1), Xu Y(1), Qu S(1), Liu C(1), Gao F(6), Pan H(7), Wang G(1), Li H(8)(9), Sun 
B(10)(11).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Neurobiology Key Laboratory, Harbin Medical
University, Education Department of Heilongjiang Province, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 
150081, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Mudanjiang Medical College, Mudanjiang,
Heilongjiang, 157011, China.
(3)The Key Laboratory of Myocardial Ischemia, Harbin Medical University, Ministry
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150086, China.
(5)Department of Cardiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 150086, China.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China, 150086.
(7)Department of Sports Medicine, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin
Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China, 150086.
(8)Department of Neurobiology, Neurobiology Key Laboratory, Harbin Medical
University, Education Department of Heilongjiang Province, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 
150081, China. lihulun@aliyun.com.
(9)The Key Laboratory of Myocardial Ischemia, Harbin Medical University, Ministry
of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China. lihulun@aliyun.com.
(10)Department of Neurobiology, Neurobiology Key Laboratory, Harbin Medical
University, Education Department of Heilongjiang Province, Harbin, Heilongjiang, 
150081, China. sunbo720@aliyun.com.
(11)The Key Laboratory of Myocardial Ischemia, Harbin Medical University,
Ministry of Education, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, China. sunbo720@aliyun.com.

We used samples from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients to examine whether
Anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPAs) alter macrophage subset
distribution and promote RA development. Macrophage subset distributions and
interferon regulatory factor 4 (IRF4) and IRF5 expressions were analyzed. ACPAs
were purified by affinity column. After RA and osteoarthritis (OA) patients'
macrophages were cocultured with ACPAs, macrophage subsets and IRF4 and IRF5
expressions were measured. Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) were transfected into 
ACPA-activated cells to suppress IRF4 or IRF5. Fluorescence-activated cell
sorting (FACS), Western blot, and immunohistochemistry were performed. Macrophage
subset disequilibrium occurred in RA patient synovial fluids. IRF4 and IRF5 were 
all expressed in the synovial fluid and synovium. ACPAs (40 IU/ml) could induce
macrophages to polarize to M1 subsets, and the percentage of increased M1/M2
ratio of RA patients was higher than that of the OA patients. ACPAs also induce
IRF4 and IRF5 protein expressions. IRF5 siRNA transfection impaired ACPA activity
significantly. We demonstrated that macrophage subset disequilibrium occurred in 
RA patients. ACPAs induced IRF5 activity and led to M1 macrophage polarization.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-015-0188-z 
PMID: 26063186  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Transl Med. 2015 Jun 2;13:173. doi: 10.1186/s12967-015-0525-x.

Novel and rare functional genomic variants in multiple autoimmune syndrome and
Sjögren's syndrome.

Johar AS(1), Mastronardi C(2), Rojas-Villarraga A(3), Patel HR(4), Chuah A(5),
Peng K(6), Higgins A(7), Milburn P(8), Palmer S(9), Silva-Lara MF(10), Velez
JI(11), Andrews D(12), Field M(13), Huttley G(14), Goodnow C(15), Anaya JM(16),
Arcos-Burgos M(17).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics and Predictive Medicine, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. u4842377@anu.edu.au.
(2)Genomics and Predictive Medicine, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
claudio.mastronardi@anu.edu.au.
(3)Center for Autoimmune Diseases Research (CREA), School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universidad del Rosario, Bogota, Colombia. adrirojas@gmail.com.
(4)Genome Discovery Unit, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin School of
Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
Hardip.Patel@anu.edu.au.
(5)Genome Discovery Unit, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin School of
Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. Aaron.Chuah@anu.edu.au.
(6)Biomolecular Resource Facility, John Curtin School of Medical Research, ANU
College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT, Australia. kaiman.peng@anu.edu.au.
(7)Biomolecular Resource Facility, John Curtin School of Medical Research, ANU
College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT, Australia. angela.higgins@anu.edu.au.
(8)Biomolecular Resource Facility, John Curtin School of Medical Research, ANU
College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT, Australia. peter.milburn@anu.edu.au.
(9)Biomolecular Resource Facility, John Curtin School of Medical Research, ANU
College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT, Australia. stephanie.palmer@anu.edu.au.
(10)Genomics and Predictive Medicine, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. maria.silva@anu.edu.au.
(11)Genomics and Predictive Medicine, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. jorge.velez@anu.edu.au.
(12)Immunogenomics and Bioinformatics Group, Immunology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia. dan.andrews@anu.edu.au.
(13)Immunogenomics and Bioinformatics Group, Immunology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
matthew.field@anu.edu.au.
(14)Biomolecular Resource Facility, John Curtin School of Medical Research, ANU
College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The Australian National University,
Canberra, ACT, Australia. gavin.huttley@anu.edu.au.
(15)Immunogenomics and Bioinformatics Group, Immunology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
chris.goodnow@anu.edu.au.
(16)Center for Autoimmune Diseases Research (CREA), School of Medicine and Health
Sciences, Universidad del Rosario, Bogota, Colombia. anayajm@gmail.com.
(17)Genomics and Predictive Medicine, Genome Biology Department, John Curtin
School of Medical Research, ANU College of Medicine, Biology and Environment, The
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT, Australia.
mauricio.arcos-burgos@anu.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Multiple autoimmune syndrome (MAS), an extreme phenotype of
autoimmune disorders, is a very well suited trait to tackle genomic variants of
these conditions. Whole exome sequencing (WES) is a widely used strategy for
detection of protein coding and splicing variants associated with inherited
diseases.
METHODS: The DNA of eight patients affected by MAS [all of whom presenting with
Sjögren's syndrome (SS)], four patients affected by SS alone and 38 unaffected
individuals, were subject to WES. Filters to identify novel and rare functional
(pathogenic-deleterious) homozygous and/or compound heterozygous variants in
these patients and controls were applied. Bioinformatics tools such as the Human 
gene connectome as well as pathway and network analysis were applied to test
overrepresentation of genes harbouring these variants in critical pathways and
networks involved in autoimmunity.
RESULTS: Eleven novel and rare functional variants were identified in cases but
not in controls, harboured in: MACF1, KIAA0754, DUSP12, ICA1, CELA1, LRP1/STAT6, 
GRIN3B, ANKLE1, TMEM161A, and FKRP. These were subsequently subject to network
analysis and their functional relatedness to genes already associated with
autoimmunity was evaluated. Notably, the LRP1/STAT6 novel mutation was homozygous
in one MAS affected patient and heterozygous in another. LRP1/STAT6 disclosed the
strongest plausibility for autoimmunity. LRP1/STAT6 are involved in extracellular
and intracellular anti-inflammatory pathways that play key roles in maintaining
the homeostasis of the immune system. Further; networks, pathways, and
interaction analyses showed that LRP1 is functionally related to the HLA-B and
IL10 genes and it has a substantial impact within immunological pathways and/or
reaction to bacterial and other foreign proteins (phagocytosis, regulation of
phospholipase A2 activity, negative regulation of apoptosis and response to
lipopolysaccharides). Further, ICA1 and STAT6 were also closely related to AIRE
and IRF5, two very well known autoimmunity genes.
CONCLUSIONS: Novel and rare exonic mutations that may account for autoimmunity
were identified. Among those, the LRP1/STAT6 novel mutation has the strongest
case for being categorised as potentially causative of MAS given the presence of 
intriguing patterns of functional interaction with other major genes shaping
autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-015-0525-x 
PMCID: PMC4450850
PMID: 26031516  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2015 Apr 22;69:496-502. doi:
10.5604/17322693.1150133.

Different pathways of macrophage activation and polarization.

Juhas U(1), Ryba-Stanisławowska M(1), Szargiej P(1), Myśliwska J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Medical University of Gdańsk.

Monocytes are short-lived cells and undergo spontaneous apoptosis every day.
Inflammatory responses may induce dramatic up-regulation of monocyte survival and
differentiation. When monocytes are recruited to an area of infection they may
differentiate into macrophages. In different microenvironments macrophages
polarize into two types. The M1 or classically activated macrophages are
characterized by the high ability to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines and the
production of NO through the induced synthesis of iNOS. The M2 or alternatively
activated macrophages are divided into 3 subtypes, M2 a, b and c, and they have
anti-inflammatory properties. Mediators of M1 macrophage TLR-dependent
polarization include transcription factors such as NF-κB, AP-1, PU.1,
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein α (C/EBP-α), STAT1 as well as interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), while the transcription factors which promote M2
activation include IRF4, C/EBP-β, Krüppel-like factor 4 (KLF4), STAT6 and PPARγ
receptor.

DOI: 10.5604/17322693.1150133 
PMID: 25983288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nat Med. 2015 Jun;21(6):610-8. doi: 10.1038/nm.3829. Epub 2015 May 4.

Irf5 deficiency in macrophages promotes beneficial adipose tissue expansion and
insulin sensitivity during obesity.

Dalmas E(1), Toubal A(2), Alzaid F(3), Blazek K(4), Eames HL(4), Lebozec K(3),
Pini M(1), Hainault I(3), Montastier E(5), Denis RG(6), Ancel P(1), Lacombe A(7),
Ling Y(1), Allatif O(1), Cruciani-Guglielmacci C(6), André S(1), Viguerie N(8),
Poitou C(9), Stich V(10), Torcivia A(11), Foufelle F(3), Luquet S(6),
Aron-Wisnewsky J(9), Langin D(12), Clément K(9), Udalova IA(4), Venteclef N(3).

Author information: 
(1)1] Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie-Curie; INSERM UMR_S
1166-ICAN, Nutriomics, Paris, France. [2] Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France.
(2)1] Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie-Curie; INSERM UMR_S
1166-ICAN, Nutriomics, Paris, France. [2] Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France. [3] Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et
Marie-Curie, INSERM, UMR_S 1138 Cordeliers Research Center, Paris, France.
(3)1] Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France. [2] Sorbonne
Universités, Université Pierre et Marie-Curie, INSERM, UMR_S 1138 Cordeliers
Research Center, Paris, France.
(4)Kennedy Institute Trust of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)1] INSERM, University of Toulouse, Paul Sabatier University, UMR 1048,
Toulouse, France. [2] Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Toulouse University
Hospitals, Toulouse, France. [3] Department of Nutrition, Toulouse University
Hospitals, Toulouse, France.
(6)Université Paris Diderot, Sorbonne Paris Cité, Unité de Biologie Fonctionnelle
et Adaptative, CNRS UMR 8251, Paris, France.
(7)Institute of Cardiometabolism and Nutrition, Paris, France.
(8)1] Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Toulouse University Hospitals,
Toulouse, France. [2] Department of Nutrition, Toulouse University Hospitals,
Toulouse, France.
(9)1] Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie-Curie; INSERM UMR_S
1166-ICAN, Nutriomics, Paris, France. [2] Institute of Cardiometabolism and
Nutrition, Paris, France. [3] Heart and Metabolism Division, Pitié-Salpêtrière
Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(10)1] Department of Sports Medicine, Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles
University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic. [2] Franco-Czech Laboratory for
Clinical Research on Obesity, Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in
Prague, Prague, Czech Republic.
(11)Visceral Surgery Division, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(12)1] Heart and Metabolism Division, Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital, Assistance
Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France. [2] Department of Sports Medicine,
Third Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in Prague, Prague, Czech Republic.

Accumulation of visceral adipose tissue correlates with elevated inflammation and
increased risk of metabolic diseases. However, little is known about the
molecular mechanisms that control its pathological expansion. Transcription
factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) has been implicated in polarizing
macrophages towards an inflammatory phenotype. Here we demonstrate that mice
lacking Irf5, when placed on a high-fat diet, show no difference in the growth of
their epididymal white adipose tissue (epiWAT) but they show expansion of their
subcutaneous white adipose tissue, as compared to wild-type (WT) mice on the same
diet. EpiWAT from Irf5-deficient mice is marked by accumulation of alternatively 
activated macrophages, higher collagen deposition that restricts adipocyte size, 
and enhanced insulin sensitivity compared to epiWAT from WT mice. In obese
individuals, IRF5 expression is negatively associated with insulin sensitivity
and collagen deposition in visceral adipose tissue. Genome-wide analysis of gene 
expression in adipose tissue macrophages highlights the transforming growth
factor β1 (TGFB1) gene itself as a direct target of IRF5-mediated inhibition.
This study uncovers a new function for IRF5 in controlling the relative mass of
different adipose tissue depots and thus insulin sensitivity in obesity, and it
suggests that inhibition of IRF5 may promote a healthy metabolic state during
this condition.

DOI: 10.1038/nm.3829 
PMID: 25939064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Biochem J. 2015 Jun 15;468(3):363-72. doi: 10.1042/BJ20141523. Epub 2015 Apr 20.

Suppression of interferon β gene transcription by inhibitors of bromodomain and
extra-terminal (BET) family members.

Malik N(1), Vollmer S(1), Nanda SK(1), Lopez-Pelaez M(1), Prescott A(2), Gray
N(3), Cohen P(4).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, College of Life Sciences,
Dow Street, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, Scotland, U.K.
(2)Division of Cell Signalling and Immunology, College of Life Sciences,
University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, Scotland, U.K.
(3)Dana Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, U.S.A.
(4)MRC Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, College of Life Sciences,
Dow Street, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, Scotland, U.K.
p.cohen@dundee.ac.uk.

PLK (Polo-like kinase) inhibitors, such as BI-2536, have been reported to
suppress IFNB (encoding IFNβ, interferon β) gene transcription induced by ligands
that activate TLR3 (Toll-like receptor 3) and TLR4. In the present study, we
found that BI-2536 is likely to exert this effect by preventing the interaction
of the transcription factors IRF3 (interferon-regulatory factor 3) and c-Jun with
the IFNB promoter, but without affecting the TBK1 {TANK [TRAF
(tumour-necrosis-factor-receptor-associated factor)-associated nuclear factor κB 
activator]-binding kinase 1}-catalysed phosphorylation of IRF3 at Ser³⁹⁶, the
dimerization and nuclear translocation of IRF3 or the phosphorylation of c-Jun
and ATF2 (activating transcription factor 2). Although BI-2536 inhibits few other
kinases tested, it interacts with BET (bromodomain and extra-terminal) family
members and displaces them from acetylated lysine residues on histones. We found 
that BET inhibitors that do not inhibit PLKs phenocopied the effect of BI-2536 on
IFNB gene transcription. Similarly, BET inhibitors blocked the interaction of
IRF5 with the IFNB promoter and the secretion of IFNβ induced by TLR7 or TLR9
ligands in the human plasmacytoid dendritic cell line GEN2.2, but without
affecting the nuclear translocation of IRF5. We found that the BET family member 
BRD4 (bromodomain-containing protein 4) was associated with the IFNB promoter and
that this interaction was enhanced by TLR3- or TLR4-ligation and prevented by
BI-2536 and other BET inhibitors. Our results establish that BET family members
are essential for TLR-stimulated IFNB gene transcription by permitting
transcription factors to interact with the IFNB promoter. They also show that the
interaction of the IFNB promoter with BRD4 is regulated by TLR ligation and that 
BI-2536 is likely to suppress IFNB gene transcription by targeting BET family
members.

© 2015 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20141523 
PMCID: PMC4613535
PMID: 25891802  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. PLoS Genet. 2015 Apr 13;11(4):e1005111. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005111.
eCollection 2015 Apr.

Host genetic variation influences gene expression response to rhinovirus
infection.

Çalışkan M(1), Baker SW(1), Gilad Y(1), Ober C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Genetics, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois,
United States of America.

Rhinovirus (RV) is the most prevalent human respiratory virus and is responsible 
for at least half of all common colds. RV infections may result in a broad
spectrum of effects that range from asymptomatic infections to severe lower
respiratory illnesses. The basis for inter-individual variation in the response
to RV infection is not well understood. In this study, we explored whether host
genetic variation is associated with variation in gene expression response to RV 
infections between individuals. To do so, we obtained genome-wide genotype and
gene expression data in uninfected and RV-infected peripheral blood mononuclear
cells (PBMCs) from 98 individuals. We mapped local and distant genetic variation 
that is associated with inter-individual differences in gene expression levels
(eQTLs) in both uninfected and RV-infected cells. We focused specifically on
response eQTLs (reQTLs), namely, genetic associations with inter-individual
variation in gene expression response to RV infection. We identified local reQTLs
for 38 genes, including genes with known functions in viral response (UBA7, OAS1,
IRF5) and genes that have been associated with immune and RV-related diseases
(e.g., ITGA2, MSR1, GSTM3). The putative regulatory regions of genes with reQTLs 
were enriched for binding sites of virus-activated STAT2, highlighting the role
of condition-specific transcription factors in genotype-by-environment
interactions. Overall, we suggest that the 38 loci associated with
inter-individual variation in gene expression response to RV-infection represent 
promising candidates for affecting immune and RV-related respiratory diseases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1005111 
PMCID: PMC4395341
PMID: 25874939  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Clin Epigenetics. 2015 Mar 26;7:34. doi: 10.1186/s13148-015-0064-6. eCollection
2015.

Age-associated DNA methylation changes in immune genes, histone modifiers and
chromatin remodeling factors within 5 years after birth in human blood
leukocytes.

Acevedo N(1), Reinius LE(2), Vitezic M(3), Fortino V(4), Söderhäll C(2), Honkanen
H(5), Veijola R(6), Simell O(7), Toppari J(8), Ilonen J(9), Knip M(10), Scheynius
A(11), Hyöty H(12), Greco D(4), Kere J(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine Solna, Translational Immunology Unit, Karolinska
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden ; Department of Biosciences and Nutrition,
Center for Innovative Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Center for Innovative Medicine,
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Biology, Bioinformatics Centre, University of Copenhagen,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Unit of Systems Toxicology, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health,
Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Department of Virology, School of Medicine, University of Tampere, Tampere,
Finland.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, Oulu University Hospital, University of Oulu, Oulu, 
Finland.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Turku University Hospital, Research Centre of
Applied and Preventive Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Turku, Turku,
Finland.
(8)Department of Physiology and Pediatrics, Turku University Hospital, University
of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(9)Immunogenetics Laboratory, University of Turku, Finland and Department of
Clinical Microbiology, University of Eastern Finland, Kuopio, Finland.
(10)Children's Hospital, Helsinki University Central Hospital, University of
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland ; Department of Paediatrics, Tampere University
Hospital, Tampere, Finland ; Folkhälsan Institute of Genetics, Helsinki, and
Research Programs Unit, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(11)Department of Medicine Solna, Translational Immunology Unit, Karolinska
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(12)Department of Virology, School of Medicine, University of Tampere, Tampere,
Finland ; Fimlab Laboratories, Tampere, Finland.
(13)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Center for Innovative Medicine,
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden ; Folkhälsan Institute of Genetics,
Helsinki, and Research Programs Unit, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Age-related changes in DNA methylation occurring in blood leukocytes 
during early childhood may reflect epigenetic maturation. We hypothesized that
some of these changes involve gene networks of critical relevance in leukocyte
biology and conducted a prospective study to elucidate the dynamics of DNA
methylation. Serial blood samples were collected at 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and
60 months after birth in ten healthy girls born in Finland and participating in
the Type 1 Diabetes Prediction and Prevention Study. DNA methylation was measured
using the HumanMethylation450 BeadChip.
RESULTS: After filtering for the presence of polymorphisms and
cell-lineage-specific signatures, 794 CpG sites showed significant DNA
methylation differences as a function of age in all children (41.6%
age-methylated and 58.4% age-demethylated, Bonferroni-corrected P value <0.01).
Age-methylated CpGs were more frequently located in gene bodies and within +5 to 
+50 kilobases (kb) of transcription start sites (TSS) and enriched in
developmental, neuronal and plasma membrane genes. Age-demethylated CpGs were
associated to promoters and DNAse-I hypersensitivity sites, located within -5 to 
+5 kb of the nearest TSS and enriched in genes related to immunity, antigen
presentation, the polycomb-group protein complex and cytoplasm.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals that susceptibility loci for complex inflammatory
diseases (for example, IRF5, NOD2, and PTGER4) and genes encoding histone
modifiers and chromatin remodeling factors (for example, HDAC4, KDM2A, KDM2B,
JARID2, ARID3A, and SMARCD3) undergo DNA methylation changes in leukocytes during
early childhood. These results open new perspectives to understand leukocyte
maturation and provide a catalogue of CpG sites that may need to be corrected for
age effects when performing DNA methylation studies in children.

DOI: 10.1186/s13148-015-0064-6 
PMCID: PMC4396570
PMID: 25874017 


83. Nihon Shinkei Seishin Yakurigaku Zasshi. 2015 Feb;35(1):1-4.

[Mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain revealing by the role
of glial cells].

[Article in Japanese]

Tsuda M.

Injury to the nervous system results in debilitating chronic pain states (called 
neuropathic pain) whose mechanisms remain unclear. Emerging lines of evidence
indicate the pivotal role of spinal glial cells in neuropathic pain. Spinal
microglia rapidly respond to peripheral nerve injury (PNI) and become activated
with changing expression of a variety of genes. The best known example is
purinergic P2X4 receptors, an ATP-gated cation channel. The expression of P2X4
receptors is upregulated in spinal microglia after PNI, and inhibition of P2X4
activity suppresses neuropathic pain. Furthermore, interferon regulatory factor-8
(IRF8) and IRF5 are identified as microglial transcription factors whose
expression is upregulated in spinal microglia after PNI, and the IRF8-IRF5
transcriptional cascade is the core process for shifting spinal microglia toward 
a state with high expression of P2X4 receptors. Astrocytes in the spinal cord
show a delayed onset of activation and play an important role in the maintenance 
of neuropathic pain via the transcription factor STAT3 and the intracellular
kinase JNK. These results obtained from glial cell research will advance our
understanding of the development and maintenance of neuropathic pain and provide 
a new target for treating this pain.


PMID: 25816633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Nat Commun. 2015 Mar 27;6:6676. doi: 10.1038/ncomms7676.

Myeloid cell-derived inducible nitric oxide synthase suppresses M1 macrophage
polarization.

Lu G(1), Zhang R(1), Geng S(2), Peng L(1), Jayaraman P(1), Chen C(2), Xu F(1),
Yang J(1), Li Q(1), Zheng H(1), Shen K(1), Wang J(1), Liu X(1), Wang W(3), Zheng 
Z(1), Qi CF(4), Si C(5), He JC(1), Liu K(6), Lira SA(1), Sikora AG(1), Li L(2),
Xiong H(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Immunology Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Center for Inflammation, Virginia Tech,
Blacksburg, Virginia 24061, USA.
(3)The Ronald O. Perelman and Claudia Cohen Center for Reproductive Medicine,
Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New York, New York 10021, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Immunogenetics, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
(5)Institute of Immunology and Molecular Medicine, Jining Medical College,
Jining, Shandong 272067, China.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Medical College of Georgia, 
Georgia Regents University, Augusta, Georgia 30912, USA.
(7)1] Department of Medicine, Immunology Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai, New York, New York 10029, USA [2] Institute of Immunology and
Molecular Medicine, Jining Medical College, Jining, Shandong 272067, China.

Here we show that iNOS-deficient mice display enhanced classically activated M1
macrophage polarization without major effects on alternatively activated M2
macrophages. eNOS and nNOS mutant mice show comparable M1 macrophage polarization
compared with wild-type control mice. Addition of N6-(1-iminoethyl)-L-lysine
dihydrochloride, an iNOS inhibitor, significantly enhances M1 macrophage
polarization while S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, a NO donor, suppresses M1
macrophage polarization. NO derived from iNOS mediates nitration of tyrosine
residues in IRF5 protein, leading to the suppression of IRF5-targeted M1
macrophage signature gene activation. Computational analyses corroborate a
circuit that fine-tunes the expression of IL-12 by iNOS in macrophages,
potentially enabling versatile responses based on changing microenvironments.
Finally, studies of an experimental model of endotoxin shock show that iNOS
deficiency results in more severe inflammation with an enhanced M1 macrophage
activation phenotype. These results suggest that NO derived from iNOS in
activated macrophages suppresses M1 macrophage polarization.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms7676 
PMCID: PMC4389243
PMID: 25813085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Jun 15;24(12):3571-81. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddv095. Epub 2015 Mar
16.

IFN-α production by plasmacytoid dendritic cell associations with polymorphisms
in gene loci related to autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.

Berggren O(1), Alexsson A(2), Morris DL(3), Tandre K(2), Weber G(4), Vyse TJ(3), 
Syvänen AC(5), Rönnblom L(2), Eloranta ML(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, Rheumatology, Science for Life Laboratory,
Uppsala University, Uppsala 75185, Sweden, olof.berggren@medsci.uu.se.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, Rheumatology, Science for Life Laboratory,
Uppsala University, Uppsala 75185, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical & Molecular Genetics, King's College London School of
Medicine, Guy's Hospital, London W12 0NN, UK and.
(4)Free University of Berlin, Berlin 14195, Germany.
(5)Department of Medical Sciences, Molecular Medicine, Science for Life
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala 75185, Sweden.

The type I interferon (IFN) system is persistently activated in systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE) and many other systemic autoimmune diseases. Studies have
shown an association between SLE and several gene variants within the type I IFN 
system. We investigated whether single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated
with SLE and other autoimmune diseases affect the IFN-α production in healthy
individuals. Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs), B cells and NK cells were
isolated from peripheral blood of healthy individuals and stimulated with
RNA-containing immune complexes (ICs), herpes simplex virus (HSV) or the
oligonucleotide ODN2216. IFN-α production by pDCs alone or in cocultures with B
or NK cells was measured by an immunoassay. All donors were genotyped with the
200K ImmunoChip, and a 5 bp CGGGG length polymorphism in the IFN regulatory
factor 5 gene (IRF5) was genotyped by PCR. We found associations between IFN-α
production and 18-86 SNPs (P ≤ 0.001), depending on the combination of the
stimulated cell types. However, only three of these associated SNPs were shared
between the cell-type combinations. Several SNPs showed novel associations to the
type I IFN system among all the associated SNPs, whereas some loci have been
described earlier for their association with SLE. Furthermore, we found that the 
SLE-risk variant of the IRF5 CGGGG-indel was associated with lower IFN-α
production. We conclude that the genetic variants affecting the IFN-α production 
highlight the intricate regulation of the type I IFN system and the importance of
understanding the mechanisms behind the dysregulated type I IFN system in SLE.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddv095 
PMID: 25779693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2015 May;44(1):272-82. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2015.02.033.
Epub 2015 Feb 28.

Molecular characterization and expression analysis of eleven interferon
regulatory factors in half-smooth tongue sole, Cynoglossus semilaevis.

Zhang J(1), Li YX(2), Hu YH(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Experimental Marine Biology, Institute of Oceanology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, 266071, China.
(2)Taishan Vocational College of Nursing, 8 Ying Sheng East Road, Tai'an, 271000,
China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Experimental Marine Biology, Institute of Oceanology,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao, 266071, China. Electronic address:
huyonghua@qdio.ac.cn.

Interferon regulatory factors (IRFs) act as transcription mediators in virus-,
bacteria-, and interferon (IFN)-induced signaling pathways and play diverse
functions in antimicrobial defense, immune modulation, hematopoietic
differentiation, and cell apoptosis. In this study, we described for the first
time eleven IRFs (IRF1, IRF1L, IRF2X1, IRF3, IRF4a, IRF4b, IRF5, IRF6, IRF7,
IRF8, and IRF9) from half-smooth tongue sole (Cynoglossus semilaevis) and
examined their tissue distributions and expression patterns under different
conditions. The deduced protein sequences of these IRFs (except IRF1) share high 
identities (71.8-86.6%) with other corresponding IRFs in other teleosts, whereas 
the sequence identity of IRF1 with the corresponding IRF1 in other teleosts is
only 58.1%. A conserved N-terminal DNA binding domain (DBD), which is
characterized by a winged type helix-loop-helix motif with four to six tryptophan
repeats, is present in all IRFs. Another conserved IRF associated domain (IAD),
which mediates the interactions in the C-terminal part of the protein, is present
in all IRFs except IRF1 and IRF2X1, which instead contain the IAD2 domain.
Several special domains also were found, including a serine-rich domain (SRD) in 
IRF3, IRF4a, IRF4b, and IRF7; a proline-rich domain (PRD) in IRF9; nuclear
localization signals (NLSs) in IRF5, IRF8, and IRF9; and a virus activated domain
(VAD) in IRF5. Quantitative real time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis showed that
expression of all IRFs occurred in multiple tissues. IRF1, IRF2X1, IRF4a, IRF5,
IRF7, and IRF8 exhibited relatively high levels of expression in immune organs,
whereas the other five IRFs displayed high levels of expression in non-immune
organs. Infection with extracellular and intracellular bacterial pathogens and
virus upregulated the expression of IRFs in a manner that depended on tissue
type, pathogen, and infection stage. Specifically, IRF1 and IRF2X1 were highly
induced by bacterial and viral pathogens; IRF1L and IRF6 responded mainly to
extracellular and intracellular bacterial pathogens; IRF3, IRF5, IRF7, IRF8, and 
IRF9 were markedly induced by intracellular bacterial pathogen and virus; IRF4a
and IRF4b were mainly induced by virus and intracellular bacterial pathogen
respectively. These results indicate that the IRFs of C. semilaevis can be
categorized into several groups which exhibit different expression patterns in
response to the infection of different microbial pathogens. These results provide
new insights into the roles of teleost IRFs in antimicrobial immunity.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2015.02.033 
PMID: 25731919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Mol Cancer. 2015 Feb 4;14:32. doi: 10.1186/s12943-015-0305-5.

A conserved region within interferon regulatory factor 5 controls breast cancer
cell migration through a cytoplasmic and transcription-independent mechanism.

Pimenta EM(1)(2), Barnes BJ(3)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry & Molecular Genetics, Rutgers
Biomedical and Health Sciences, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA.
pimentem@njms.rutgers.edu.
(2)Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, New Jersey Medical School-Cancer
Center Rm. G1224, 205 South Orange Ave, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA.
pimentem@njms.rutgers.edu.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry & Molecular Genetics, Rutgers
Biomedical and Health Sciences, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA.
barnesbe@njms.rutgers.edu.
(4)Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, New Jersey Medical School-Cancer
Center Rm. G1224, 205 South Orange Ave, Newark, NJ, 07103, USA.
barnesbe@njms.rutgers.edu.

BACKGROUND: Migration of breast cancer cells out of a duct or lobule is a
prerequisite for invasion and metastasis. However, the factors controlling breast
cancer cell migration are not fully elucidated. We previously found that
expression of the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is
significantly decreased as a breast lesion progresses from a non-malignant stage 
to ductal carcinoma in situ and is eventually lost in ~80% of invasive ductal
carcinomas examined. Human in vitro and murine in vivo models of invasive breast 
cancer confirmed an important role for IRF5 in regulating cell motility, invasion
and/or metastasis; yet, the mechanism(s) by which this occurs is not known. Since
IRF5 is primarily expressed in the cytoplasm of human mammary epithelial cells,
we hypothesized that IRF5 may function in a transcription-independent manner to
control intrinsic cell migration.
RESULTS: A series of IRF5 deletion mutants were tested in cell motility, invasion
and migration assays. A novel, conserved 10 amino acid domain was identified that
regulates mammary epithelial cell migration. This region (∆115-125) is downstream
of IRF5's DNA binding domain and therefore when absent, retains IRF5
transcription activity but loses cell migration control. An IRF5 construct with a
mutated nuclear localization signal further confirmed that IRF5 controls
migration in a cytoplasmic and transcription-independent manner. Candidate
cytoskeletal molecules were identified in MDA-MB-231 cells to interact with IRF5 
by immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analysis. α6-tubulin was
independently confirmed to interact with endogenous IRF5 in MCF-10A cells.
Alterations in F-actin bundling after staining EV- and IRF5-231 cells with
phalloidin suggests that IRF5 may control cell migration/motility through its
interaction with cytoskeletal molecules that contribute to the formation of
F-actin networks. Last and most notably, we found that IRF5's control of cell
migration is not restricted to mammary epithelial cells but functions in other
epithelial cell types suggesting a more global role for this newly identified
cell migratory function of IRF5.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings are significant as they identify a new regulator of
epithelial cell migration and provide specific insight into the mechanism(s) by
which loss of IRF5 expression in mammary epithelial cells contributes to breast
cancer metastasis.

DOI: 10.1186/s12943-015-0305-5 
PMCID: PMC4326371
PMID: 25649192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Immunol. 2015 Feb 15;194(4):1467-79. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1402807. Epub 2015
Jan 16.

IRF5 deficiency ameliorates lupus but promotes atherosclerosis and metabolic
dysfunction in a mouse model of lupus-associated atherosclerosis.

Watkins AA(1), Yasuda K(1), Wilson GE(1), Aprahamian T(1), Xie Y(1),
Maganto-Garcia E(2), Shukla P(1), Oberlander L(1), Laskow B(1), Menn-Josephy
H(1), Wu Y(3), Duffau P(1), Fried SK(3), Lichtman AH(2), Bonegio RG(1), Rifkin
IR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Renal Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, MA 02118;
(2)Vascular Research Division, Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115; and.
(3)Endocrinology Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of
Medicine, Boston, MA 02118.
(4)Renal Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, MA 02118; irifkin@bu.edu.

Premature atherosclerosis is a severe complication of lupus and other systemic
autoimmune disorders. Gain-of-function polymorphisms in IFN regulatory factor 5
(IRF5) are associated with an increased risk of developing lupus, and IRF5
deficiency in lupus mouse models ameliorates disease. However, whether IRF5
deficiency also protects against atherosclerosis development in lupus is not
known. In this study, we addressed this question using the gld.apoE(-/-) mouse
model. IRF5 deficiency markedly reduced lupus disease severity. Unexpectedly,
despite the reduction in systemic immune activation, IRF5-deficient mice
developed increased atherosclerosis and also exhibited metabolic dysregulation
characterized by hyperlipidemia, increased adiposity, and insulin resistance.
Levels of the atheroprotective cytokine IL-10 were reduced in aortae of
IRF5-deficient mice, and in vitro studies demonstrated that IRF5 is required for 
IL-10 production downstream of TLR7 and TLR9 signaling in multiple immune cell
types. Chimera studies showed that IRF5 deficiency in bone marrow-derived cells
prevents lupus development and contributes in part to the increased
atherosclerosis. Notably, IRF5 deficiency in non-bone marrow-derived cells also
contributes to the increased atherosclerosis through the generation of
hyperlipidemia and increased adiposity. Together, our results reveal a protective
role for IRF5 in lupus-associated atherosclerosis that is mediated through the
effects of IRF5 in both immune and nonimmune cells. These findings have
implications for the proposed targeting of IRF5 in the treatment of autoimmune
disease as global IRF5 inhibition may exacerbate cardiovascular disease in these 
patients.

Copyright © 2015 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1402807 
PMCID: PMC4323680
PMID: 25595782  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2014 Oct-Dec;27(4):635-8.

Association of the IRF5 SNP rs2004640 with systemic sclerosis in Han Chinese.

Wang J(1), Yi L(2), Guo X(2), Liu M(2), Li H(2), Zou H(3), Gu Y(4), Tu W(5), Guo 
G(6), Yang L(7), Lai S(8), He D(9), Zhou X(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering and Ministry of Education Key
Laboratory of Contemporary Anthropology, School of Life Sciences, Fudan
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunogenetics, University of Texas
Medical School at Houston, TX , USA.
(3)Institute of Rheumatology, Immunology and Allergy, Fudan University, Shanghai,
China.
(4)Gansu Provincial Hospital, Lanzhou, China.
(5)Shanghai Traditional Chinese Medicine-Integrated Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(6)Yiling Hospital, Shijiazhuang, China.
(7)Teaching Hospital of Chengdu University of TCM, Chengdu, China.
(8)Baylor College of Medicine and Houston VA Hospital, Houston, USA.
(9)Institute of Arthritis Research, Shanghai Academy of Chinese Medical Sciences,
Shanghai Guanghua Integrative Medicine Hospital, Shanghai, China.

Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a complex disease involving multiple genetic factors.
An association of the IRF5 polymorphism with SSc was reported in Caucasian
populations of Europe and North America, as well as in Japanese populations. The 
present study aimed to examine whether the SSc-associated SNP rs2004640 of IRF5
gene confer susceptibility to SSc and clinical features of SSc in a Han Chinese
population. A Han Chinese cohort consisting of 424 SSc patients and 502 healthy
controls were examined in the study. TaqMan assays were carried out to examine
the SNP. Exact p-values were obtained (Fishers test) from 2x2 tables of allele
counts and disease status. SSc patients of Han Chinese showed increased
homozygous TT genotype of the rs2004640 (p = 0.027, odds ratio (OR) = 1.4, CI
=1.03-1.93), which was significantly associated with pulmonary fibrosis of SSc
and ATA-positive SSc of Han Chinese. The lcSSc and ACA-positive SSc of Han
Chinese appeared also in association with the increased T allele frequency.
However, the Chinese dcSSc did not show any association with the rs2004640. The
results were consistent with previous reports in other ethnic populations in
supporting the notion that polymorphisms of IRF5 may play an important role in
susceptibility to SSc.

DOI: 10.1177/039463201402700420 
PMID: 25572744  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Nat Commun. 2015 Jan 7;6:5930. doi: 10.1038/ncomms6930.

Proinflammatory TLR signalling is regulated by a TRAF2-dependent proteolysis
mechanism in macrophages.

Jin J(1), Xiao Y(1), Hu H(1), Zou Q(1), Li Y(1), Gao Y(2), Ge W(2), Cheng X(1),
Sun SC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center,
7455 Fannin Street, Box 902, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.
(2)National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic
Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Dongdan Santiao 5#,
Beijing 100005, China.
(3)1] Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, 7455 Fannin Street, Box 902, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [2] Center for
Inflammation and Cancer, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 7455 
Fannin Street, Box 902, Houston, Texas 77030, USA [3] The University of Texas
Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Signal transduction from toll-like receptors (TLRs) is important for innate
immunity against infections, but deregulated TLR signalling contributes to
inflammatory disorders. Here we show that myeloid cell-specific ablation of TRAF2
greatly promotes TLR-stimulated proinflammatory cytokine expression in
macrophages and exacerbates colitis in an animal model of inflammatory bowel
disease. TRAF2 deficiency does not enhance upstream signalling events, but it
causes accumulation of two transcription factors, c-Rel and IRF5, known to
mediate proinflammatory cytokine induction. Interestingly, TRAF2 controls the
fate of c-Rel and IRF5 via a proteasome-dependent mechanism that also requires
TRAF3 and the E3 ubiquitin ligase cIAP. We further show that TRAF2 also regulates
inflammatory cytokine production in tumour-associated macrophages and facilitates
tumour growth. These findings demonstrate an unexpected anti-inflammatory
function of TRAF2 and suggest a proteasome-dependent mechanism that limits the
proinflammatory TLR signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6930 
PMCID: PMC4286812
PMID: 25565375  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Dig Dis. 2015 Apr;16(4):205-16. doi: 10.1111/1751-2980.12229.

Association between genetic polymorphisms in interferon regulatory factor 5
(IRF5) gene and Malaysian patients with Crohn's disease.

Chua KH(1), Lian LH, Khor WC, Lee WS, Hilmi I, Goh KL, Kee BP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

OBJECTIVE: The study aimed to investigate the association between the interferon 
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) gene polymorphisms and the onset of Crohn's disease
(CD) in a Malaysian cohort.
METHODS: Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples collected from 91 CD
patients and 100 healthy individuals via a conventional phenol-chloroform
extraction method. Screening of the four target single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), including rs3807306, rs4728142, rs10954213 and rs11770589 was carried out
in a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermal cycler using TaqMan
genotyping assay. The genetic data obtained was subsequently subjected to
statistical analysis to relate the SNPs to the onset of CD in the Malaysian
population. The genotyping assay and data were further validated selectively by
conventional PCR amplification of the SNP sites and DNA sequencing.
RESULTS: The rs3807306 G allele was a risk factor for CD (OR 2.3630, P =
0.00004), whereas the homozygous T genotype was protective against the disease
(OR 0.2038, P = 0.00004). The heterozygous A/G genotype of rs10954213 was
significantly associated with CD (OR 4.319, P = 0.0377). On the other hand, the
homozygous A and heterozygous A/G genotypes of the rs11770589 were significant in
the controls (OR 0.4242, P = 0.0166) and patients (OR 2.000, P = 0.0179),
respectively. In the ethnic-stratification analysis, the rs11770589 homozygous A 
genotype was protective in Indians (OR 0.1551, P = 0.0112).
CONCLUSION: IRF5 gene polymorphisms may play a role in the development of CD in
the Malaysian population.

© 2015 Chinese Medical Association Shanghai Branch, Chinese Society of
Gastroenterology, Renji Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiaotong University
School of Medicine and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-2980.12229 
PMID: 25564941  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Microbiol. 2015 Jan;53(1):70-6. doi: 10.1007/s12275-014-4654-3. Epub 2015 Jan
4.

Hypermethylation of the interferon regulatory factor 5 promoter in Epstein-Barr
virus-associated gastric carcinoma.

Dong SM(1), Lee HG, Cho SG, Kwon SH, Yoon H, Kwon HJ, Lee JH, Kim H, Park PG, Kim
H, Hayward SD, Park JH, Lee JM.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute, National Cancer Center, Goyang, Gyeonggi-do, 410-769,
Republic of Korea.

Interferon regulatory factor-5 (IRF-5), a member of the mammalian IRF
transcription factor family, is regulated by p53, type I interferon and virus
infection. IRF-5 participates in virus-induced TLR-mediated innate immune
responses and may play a role as a tumor suppressor. It was suppressed in various
EBV-infected transformed cells, thus it is valuable to identify the suppression
mechanism. We focused on a promoter CpG islands methylation, a kind of epigenetic
regulation in EBV-associated Burkitt's lymphomas (BLs) and gastric carcinomas.
IRF-5 is not detected in most of EBV-infected BL cell lines due to
hypermethylation of IRF-5 distal promoter (promoter-A), which was restored by a
demethylating agent, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine. Hypomethylation of CpG islands in
promoter-A was observed only in EBV type III latent infected BL cell lines (LCL
and Mutu III). Similarly, during EBV infection to Akata-4E3 cells, IRF-5 was
observed at early time periods (2 days to 8 weeks), concomitant unmethylation of 
promoter-A, but suppressed in later infection periods as observed in latency I BL
cell lines. Moreover, hypermethylation in IRF-5 promoter-A region was also
observed in EBV-associated gastric carcinoma (EBVaGC) cell lines or primary
gastric carcinoma tissues, which show type I latent infection. In summary, IRF-5 
is suppressed by hypermethylation of its promoter-A in most of EBV-infected
transformed cells, especially BLs and EBVaGC. EBV-induced carcinogenesis takes an
advantage of proliferative effects of TLR signaling, while limiting IRF-5
mediated negative effects in the establishment of EBVaGCs.

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-014-4654-3 
PMID: 25557482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Medicine (Baltimore). 2014 Dec;93(29):e349. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000349.

IFNAR1 is a predictor for overall survival in colorectal cancer and its mRNA
expression correlated with IRF7 but not TLR9.

Chang LC(1), Fan CW, Tseng WK, Chein HP, Hsieh TY, Chen JR, Hwang CC, Hua CC.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Pathology (L-CC, T-YH, H-PC, J-RC, C-CH); Division of
Colon and Rectal Surgery (C-WF, W-KT); and Department of Internal Medicine
(C-CH), Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Keelung, and Chang Gung University,
Taoyuan, Taiwan.

Toll-like receptor (TLR) 9 plays a role in intestinal inflammation that, in turn,
is related to the tumorigenesis of colorectal cancer. Nuclear factor κB (NFκB),
and interferon regulatory factor (IRF) 5 and IRF7 can be activated by TLR9 and
induce the production of proinflammatory cytokines and type I interferon,
respectively. This study investigated the mRNA expressions of TLR9 and its
downstream signaling molecules in both the tumor and the normal tissues of
colorectal cancer. Eighty-four subjects with colorectal cancer were consecutively
recruited at a community-based hospital, and the mRNA expression of TLR9, NFκB,
IRF5, IRF7, interleukin 6 (IL6), and interferon α/β/ω receptor 1 (IFNAR1) in the 
tumor and normal tissue were determined by real-time reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction using TaqMan FAM-labeled MGB probes (Life Technologies,
Carlsbad, CA). The tumor had higher percentages of detection of TLR9, IFNAR1, and
IL6 mRNA expressions than normal tissue. The absence of detectable TLR9 mRNA
expression was associated with an absence of significance in the correlation
between IL6 and NFκB or IRF5, but not that between IRF7 and IFNAR1 in both the
tumor and the normal tissues. An absence of detectable IFNAR1 mRNA expression in 
the tumor (hazard ratio: 3.77; 95% confidence interval: 1.22-11.60) and advanced 
stage (stages III and IV, 7.86; 1.76-35.40) were significant predictors for
overall survival. IFNAR1 is a predictor for overall survival and mRNA expression 
is correlated to IRF7, but not TLR9 in colorectal cancer. The results cast doubt 
on the usefulness of TLR9 agonist in treating colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000349 
PMCID: PMC4602595
PMID: 25546690  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Immunol Cell Biol. 2015 May-Jun;93(5):486-99. doi: 10.1038/icb.2014.110. Epub
2014 Dec 23.

IRF5 is a novel regulator of CXCL13 expression in breast cancer that regulates
CXCR5(+) B- and T-cell trafficking to tumor-conditioned media.

Pimenta EM(1), De S(1), Weiss R(1), Feng D(1), Hall K(2), Kilic S(3), Bhanot
G(4), Ganesan S(5), Ran S(2), Barnes BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Microbiology, Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Rutgers
Biomedical and Health Sciences, Newark, NJ, USA [2] Rutgers Biomedical and Health
Sciences, New Jersey Medical School-Cancer Center, UMDNJ, Newark, NJ, USA.
(2)Department of Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Cell Biology, Southern
Illinois University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL, USA.
(3)Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences, New Jersey Medical School-Cancer
Center, UMDNJ, Newark, NJ, USA.
(4)1] Department of Molecular Biology, Biochemistry & Physics, Rutgers
University, Piscataway, NJ, USA [2] Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New
Brunswick, NJ, USA.
(5)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, USA.

Comment in
    Immunol Cell Biol. 2015 May-Jun;93(5):425-6.

Clinical studies using prognostic and predictive signatures have shown that an
immune signal emanating from whole tumors reflects the level of immune cell
infiltration--a high immune signal linked to improved outcome. Factors regulating
immune cell trafficking to the tumor, however, are not known. Previous work has
shown that expression of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), a critical immune
regulator, is lost in ~80% of invasive ductal carcinomas examined. We postulated 
that IRF5-positive and -negative breast tumors would differentially regulate
immune cell trafficking to the tumor. Using a focused tumor inflammatory array,
differences in cytokine and chemokine expression were examined between
IRF5-positive and -negative MDA-MB-231 cells grown in three-dimensional culture. 
A number of cytokines/chemokines were found to be dysregulated between cultures. 
CXCL13 was identified as a direct target of IRF5 resulting in the enhanced
recruitment of B and T cells to IRF5-positive tumor-conditioned media. The
ability of IRF5 to regulate mediators of cell migration was confirmed by
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, chromatin immunoprecipitation assay, small
interfering RNA knockdown and immunofluorescence staining of human breast tumor
tissues. Analysis of primary immune cell subsets revealed that IRF5 specifically 
recruits CXCR5(+) B and T cells to the tumor; CXCR5 is the receptor for CXCL13.
Analysis of primary breast tumor tissues revealed a significant correlation
between IRF5 and CXCL13 expression providing clinical relevance to the study.
Together, these data support that IRF5 directly regulates a network of genes that
shapes a tumor immune response and may, in combination with CXCL13, serve as a
novel prognostic marker for antitumor immunity.

DOI: 10.1038/icb.2014.110 
PMID: 25533286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Immunol Lett. 2015 Jan;163(1):84-95. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2014.11.013. Epub 2014 
Nov 29.

Human megakaryocyte progenitors derived from hematopoietic stem cells of normal
individuals are MHC class II-expressing professional APC that enhance Th17 and
Th1/Th17 responses.

Finkielsztein A(1), Schlinker AC(2), Zhang L(1), Miller WM(3), Datta SK(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
(2)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, McCormick School of
Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA.
(3)Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, McCormick School of
Engineering, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA; Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center of Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.
(4)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Medicine, Northwestern University
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA; Department of
Microbiology-Immunology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL 60611, USA. Electronic address: skd257@northwestern.edu.

Platelets, like stromal cells, present antigen only via MHC class I, but the
immune potential of their progenitors has not been explored in humans. We derived
CD34(+)CD117(+)CD41(+)CD151(+) megakaryocyte progenitors (MKp) in vitro from
mobilized peripheral blood hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) of
normal subjects using culture conditions akin to bone marrow niche, or organs
that support extramedullary hematopoiesis. The MKp expressed MHC Class II in
contrast to platelets and functioned as professional APC before they matured
further. Moreover, MKp constitutively expressed mRNA encoding mediators for human
Th17 expansion, including IL-1, IL-18, IL-6, TGFβ, IL-23, BAFF, and COX2. MKp
also expressed high levels of type I interferon and IRF5 mRNA. In contrast to
platelets, MKp augmented the expansion of Th17, Th1, and potent Th17/Th1
double-positive cells in normal PBMC and CD4 line T cells from normal subjects or
lupus patients. The Th cell augmentation involved pre-committed memory cells, and
was significant although modest, because only non-cognate MKp-T cell interactions
could be studied, under non-polarizing conditions. Importantly, the MKp-mediated 
expansion was observed in the presence or absence of direct MKp-T cell contact.
Furthermore, MKp augmented Th17 responses against Candida albicans, a serious
opportunistic pathogen. These results indicate an immunologic role of MKp in
situations associated with extramedullary hematopoiesis and mobilization of HSPC.

Copyright © 2014 European Federation of Immunological Societies. Published by
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2014.11.013 
PMCID: PMC4278953
PMID: 25454068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Mult Scler. 2015 Jul;21(8):984-95. doi: 10.1177/1352458514557304. Epub 2014 Nov
12.

Human interferon regulatory factor 5 homologous epitopes of Epstein-Barr virus
and Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis induce a specific humoral and
cellular immune response in multiple sclerosis patients.

Cossu D(1), Mameli G(1), Galleri G(2), Cocco E(3), Masala S(1), Frau J(3),
Marrosu MG(3), Manetti R(2), Sechi LA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Sezione di Microbiologia e Virologia,
Università di Sassari, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, Università di Sassari, Italy.
(3)Centro Sclerosi Multipla, Dipartimento di Sanità Pubblica Medicina Clinica e
Molecolare, Università di Cagliari, Italy.
(4)Dipartimento di Scienze Biomediche, Sezione di Microbiologia e Virologia,
Università di Sassari, Italy sechila@uniss.it.

BACKGROUND: A large number of reports indicate the association of Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV), and Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis (MAP) with multiple 
sclerosis (MS).
OBJECTIVE: To gain a better understanding of the role of these two pathogens, we 
investigated the host response induced by selected antigenic peptides.
METHODS: We examined both humoral and cell-mediated responses against peptides
deriving from EBV tegument protein BOLF1, the MAP_4027 and the human interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5424-434) homolog in several MS patients and healthy
controls (HCs).
RESULTS: Antibodies against these peptides were highly prevalent in MS patients
compared to HCs. Concerning MS patients, BOLF1305-320, MAP_402718-32 and
IRF5424-434 peptides were able to induce mainly Th1-related cytokines secretion, 
whereas Th2-related cytokines were down-regulated. Flow cytometry analyses
performed on a subset of MS patients highlighted that these peptides were capable
of inducing the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines: IFN-γ and TNF-α by CD4(+) 
and CD8(+) T lymphocytes, and IL-6 and TNF-α by CD14(+) monocyte cells.
CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrated that both EBV and MAP epitopes elicit a
consistent humoral response in MS patients compared to HCs, and that the
aforementioned peptides are able to induce a T-cell-mediated response that is MS 
correlated.

© The Author(s), 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458514557304 
PMID: 25392335  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Acta Reumatol Port. 2015 Jan-Mar;40(1):56-62.

Association of PTPN22 (rs2476601) and STAT4 (rs7574865) polymorphisms with
Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Western Algerian population.

Fodil M, Benzaoui A, Zemani-Fodil F, Aberkane M, Boughrara W, Saidi-Mehtar N,
Petit-Teixeira E, Boudjema A.

AIM: The aim of the present study was to replicate the association of five risk
gene polymorphisms (PTPN22-rs2476601, STAT4-rs7574865, 6q23-rs6927172,
IRF5-rs2004640 and TRAF1/C5-rs10818488) with RA in a specific population of the
Western Algeria.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study group comprised 110 patients with RA and 197
ethnically matched healthy control subjects. All polymorphisms were genotyped
using predesigned TaqMan® assays. Allele and genotype frequencies in patients and
control subjects were compared by chi-square test and odds ratios with 95%
confidence intervals. Correction for multiple testing was carried out using the
Bonferroni adjustment.
RESULTS: Statistically significant associations with RA were detected. The
strongest signal was obtained for PTPN22-rs2476601 with an allelic Pvalue 3.32 x 
10(-11) (OR = 9.83, 95% CI [4.28 - 22.56]). A second significant association was 
obtained with STAT4-rs7574865 (allelic Pvalue = 4 x 10(-3); OR = 1.75, 95% CI
[1.16 - 2.63]). The third SNP, 6q23-rs6927172, showed a significant result of
association with RA, but missed our criteria for significance at allelic level
after Bonferroni's correction (allelic Pvalue = 0.027; OR = 0.64, 95% CI [0.42 - 
0.97]). Finally, IRF5-rs2004640 and TRAF1/C5-rs10818488 showed a significant
association only at genotypic level (Pvalues: 3 x 10(-4) and 2.9 x 10(-3)
respectively) but did not reach statistical significance when comparing allele
frequencies (Pvalues: 0.96 and 0.21 respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: From this initial study, we can conclude that PTPN22-rs2476601 and
STAT4-rs7574865 polymorphisms are clearly associated with the risk of RA in the
Western Algerian population.


PMID: 25351936  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 28;9(10):e111061. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111061.
eCollection 2014.

Single nucleotide polymorphisms within interferon signaling pathway genes are
associated with colorectal cancer susceptibility and survival.

Lu S(1), Pardini B(2), Cheng B(1), Naccarati A(3), Huhn S(1), Vymetalkova V(4),
Vodickova L(5), Buchler T(6), Hemminki K(7), Vodicka P(4), Försti A(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Genetic Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany.
(2)Human Genetics Foundation (HuGeF), Turin, Italy.
(3)Human Genetics Foundation (HuGeF), Turin, Italy; Department of Molecular
Biology of Cancer, Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the
Czech Republic, Prague, Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology of Cancer, Institute of Experimental Medicine,
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague, Czech Republic; Institute of
Biology and Medical Genetics, 1st Medical Faculty, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic.
(5)Department of Molecular Biology of Cancer, Institute of Experimental Medicine,
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Prague, Czech Republic; Institute of
Biology and Medical Genetics, 1st Medical Faculty, Charles University, Prague,
Czech Republic; Biomedical Centre, Faculty of Medicine in Pilsen, Charles
University in Prague, Pilsen, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Oncology, Thomayer Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(7)Division of Molecular Genetic Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center
(DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany; Center of Primary Health Care Research, Clinical
Research Center, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.

Interferon (IFN) signaling has been suggested to play an important role in
colorectal carcinogenesis. Our study aimed to examine potentially functional
genetic variants in interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3), IRF5, IRF7, type I and
type II IFN and their receptor genes with respect to colorectal cancer (CRC) risk
and clinical outcome. Altogether 74 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were
covered by the 34 SNPs genotyped in a hospital-based case-control study of 1327
CRC cases and 758 healthy controls from the Czech Republic. We also analyzed
these SNPs in relation to overall survival and event-free survival in a subgroup 
of 483 patients. Seven SNPs in IFNA1, IFNA13, IFNA21, IFNK, IFNAR1 and IFNGR1
were associated with CRC risk. After multiple testing correction, the
associations with the SNPs rs2856968 (IFNAR1) and rs2234711 (IFNGR1) remained
formally significant (P = 0.0015 and P<0.0001, respectively). Multivariable
survival analyses showed that the SNP rs6475526 (IFNA7/IFNA14) was associated
with overall survival of the patients (P = 0.041 and event-free survival among
patients without distant metastasis at the time of diagnosis, P = 0.034). The
hazard ratios (HRs) for rs6475526 remained statistically significant even after
adjustment for age, gender, grade and stage (P = 0.029 and P = 0.036,
respectively), suggesting that rs6475526 is an independent prognostic marker for 
CRC. Our data suggest that genetic variation in the IFN signaling pathway genes
may play a role in the etiology and survival of CRC and further studies are
warranted.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111061 
PMCID: PMC4211713
PMID: 25350395  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 22;9(10):e110044. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110044.
eCollection 2014.

Genetic association study of TNFAIP3, IFIH1, IRF5 polymorphisms with
polymyositis/dermatomyositis in Chinese Han population.

Chen S(1), Wang Q(1), Wu Z(1), Li Y(1), Li P(1), Sun F(1), Zheng W(1), Wu Q(1),
Wu C(1), Deng C(1), Zhang F(1), Li Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Peking Union Medical
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical
College, Key Laboratory of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Ministry of
Education, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the TNFAIP3, IFIH1, and
IRF5 genes have been associated with several auto-inflammation diseases, while
the susceptibility between these genes and idiopathic inflammatory myopathies
(IIMs) were not reported. This study aimed to investigate whether TNFAIP3, IFIH1,
and IRF5 gene polymorphisms confer susceptibility for the IIMs in Chinese Han
population.
METHODS: A large case-control study of Chinese subjects with polymyositis (PM)
(n = 298) and dermatomyositis (DM) (n = 530) was accomplished. 968 healthy and
ethnically matched controls were available for comparison. Six SNPs in the
TNFAIP3 region (rs2230926 and rs5029939), the IFIH1 gene (rs1990760 and
rs3747517) and the IRF5 region (rs4728142 and rs729302) were assessed and
genotyped using the Sequenom MassArray iPLEX platform.
RESULTS: Our study indicated a strong allele association was observed in PM/DM
and PM patients for rs2230926 (OR: 1.61, 95%CI: 1.20-2.16, P(c) = 7.5×10(-3); OR:
1.88, 95%CI: 1.30-2.74, P(c) = 4.0×10(-3), respectively) and rs5029939 (OR: 1.64,
95%CI: 1.21-2.21, P(c) = 6.0×10(-3); OR: 1.88, 95%CI: 1.28-2.76,
P(c) = 5.5×10(-3), respectively). And rs2230926 and rs5029939 were significantly 
associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD) in PM/DM and PM patients
(P(c) = 0.04 and P(c) = 0.016; P(c) = 0.02 and P(c) = 0.03, respectively). In
addition, rs4728142 allele and genotype had significant association with PM/DM
patients (P(c) = 0.026 and P(c) = 0.048, respectively). Further analysis with
three logistic regression genetic models revealed statistically significant
difference in the genotypic distribution in the PM/DM, PM or DM patients when the
additive and dominant models were used.
CONCLUSIONS: This was the first study to reveal TNFAIP3 and IRF5 polymorphisms
were associated with PM/DM patients or these patients with ILD, indicating that
TNFAIP3 and IRF5 might be the susceptibility gene for PM/DM patients in Chinese
Han population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110044 
PMCID: PMC4206287
PMID: 25337792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 21;9(10):e110913. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110913.
eCollection 2014.

A systems model of phosphorylation for inflammatory signaling events.

Sadreev II(1), Chen MZ(2), Welsh GI(3), Umezawa Y(4), Kotov NV(5), Valeyev NV(6).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Systems, Dynamics and Control, College of Engineering, Mathematics 
and Physical Sciences, University of Exeter, Harrison Building, Exeter, United
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.
(3)Academic Renal Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol,
Dorothy Hodgkin Building, Bristol, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Dermatology, The Jikei University School of Medicine, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Biophysics and Bionics Lab, Institute of Physics, Kazan Federal University,
Kazan, Russia.
(6)Academic Renal Unit, School of Clinical Sciences, University of Bristol,
Dorothy Hodgkin Building, Bristol, United Kingdom; Biophysics and Bionics Lab,
Institute of Physics, Kazan Federal University, Kazan, Russia.

Phosphorylation is a fundamental biochemical reaction that modulates protein
activity in cells. While a single phosphorylation event is relatively easy to
understand, multisite phosphorylation requires systems approaches for deeper
elucidation of the underlying molecular mechanisms. In this paper we develop a
mechanistic model for single- and multi-site phosphorylation. The proposed model 
is compared with previously reported studies. We compare the predictions of our
model with experiments published in the literature in the context of inflammatory
signaling events in order to provide a mechanistic description of the multisite
phosphorylation-mediated regulation of Signal Transducer and Activator of
Transcription 3 (STAT3) and Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 (IRF-5) proteins. The 
presented model makes crucial predictions for transcription factor
phosphorylation events in the immune system. The model proposes potential
mechanisms for T cell phenotype switching and production of cytokines. This study
also provides a generic framework for the better understanding of a large number 
of multisite phosphorylation-regulated biochemical circuits.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110913 
PMCID: PMC4205014
PMID: 25333362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Arthritis Res Ther. 2014 Oct 21;16(5):438. doi: 10.1186/s13075-014-0438-8.

An Immunochip-based interrogation of scleroderma susceptibility variants
identifies a novel association at DNASE1L3.

Zochling J, Newell F, Charlesworth JC, Leo P, Stankovich J, Cortes A, Zhou Y,
Stevens W, Sahhar J, Roddy J, Nash P, Tymms K, Rischmueller M, Lester S, Proudman
S, Brown MA.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study was to interrogate the genetic architecture
and autoimmune pleiotropy of scleroderma susceptibility in the Australian
population.
METHODS: We genotyped individuals from a well-characterized cohort of Australian 
scleroderma patients with the Immunochip, a custom array enriched for single
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at immune loci. Controls were taken from the 1958
British Birth Cohort. After data cleaning and adjusting for population
stratification the final dataset consisted of 486 cases, 4,458 controls and
146,525 SNPs. Association analyses were conducted using logistic regression in
PLINK. A replication study was performed using 833 cases and 1,938 controls.
RESULTS: A total of eight loci with suggestive association (P <10-4.5) were
identified, of which five showed significant association in the replication
cohort (HLA-DRB1, DNASE1L3, STAT4, TNP03-IRF5 and VCAM1). The most notable
findings were at the DNASE1L3 locus, previously associated with systemic lupus
erythematosus, and VCAM1, a locus not previously associated with human disease.
This study identified a likely functional variant influencing scleroderma
susceptibility at the DNASE1L3 locus; a missense polymorphism rs35677470 in
DNASE1L3, with an odds ratio of 2.35 (P = 2.3 × 10(-10)) in anti-centromere
antibody (ACA) positive cases.
CONCLUSIONS: This pilot study has confirmed previously reported scleroderma
associations, revealed further genetic overlap between scleroderma and systemic
lupus erythematosus, and identified a putative novel scleroderma susceptibility
locus.

DOI: 10.1186/s13075-014-0438-8 
PMCID: PMC4230517
PMID: 25332064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Open Rheumatol J. 2014 Sep 29;8:29-42. doi: 10.2174/1874312901408010029.
eCollection 2014.

Systemic Sclerosis is a Complex Disease Associated Mainly with Immune Regulatory 
and Inflammatory Genes.

Jin J(1), Chou C(2), Lima M(3), Zhou D(4), Zhou X(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, USA ; Duke University, USA.
(2)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, USA.
(3)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, USA ; Rice University, USA.
(4)University of Texas Medical School at Houston, USA ; Washington University,
USA.

Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a fibrotic and autoimmune disease characterized
clinically by skin and internal organ fibrosis and vascular damage, and
serologically by the presence of circulating autoantibodies. Although
etiopathogenesis is not yet well understood, the results of numerous genetic
association studies support genetic contributions as an important factor to SSc. 
In this paper, the major genes of SSc are reviewed. The most recent genome-wide
association studies (GWAS) are taken into account along with robust candidate
gene studies. The literature search was performed on genetic association studies 
of SSc in PubMed between January 2000 and March 2014 while eligible studies
generally had over 600 total participants with replication. A few genetic
association studies with related functional changes in SSc patients were also
included. A total of forty seven genes or specific genetic regions were reported 
to be associated with SSc, although some are controversial. These genes include
HLA genes, STAT4, CD247, TBX21, PTPN22, TNFSF4, IL23R, IL2RA, IL-21,
SCHIP1/IL12A, CD226, BANK1, C8orf13-BLK, PLD4, TLR-2, NLRP1, ATG5, IRF5, IRF8,
TNFAIP3, IRAK1, NFKB1, TNIP1, FAS, MIF, HGF, OPN, IL-6, CXCL8, CCR6, CTGF, ITGAM,
CAV1, MECP2, SOX5, JAZF1, DNASEIL3, XRCC1, XRCC4, PXK, CSK, GRB10, NOTCH4, RHOB, 
KIAA0319, PSD3 and PSOR1C1. These genes encode proteins mainly involved in immune
regulation and inflammation, and some of them function in transcription, kinase
activity, DNA cleavage and repair. The discovery of various SSc-associated genes 
is important in understanding the genetics of SSc and potential pathogenesis that
contribute to the development of this disease.

DOI: 10.2174/1874312901408010029 
PMCID: PMC4200700
PMID: 25328554 


103. Nat Commun. 2014 Oct 20;5:5236. doi: 10.1038/ncomms6236.

Characterizing the genetic basis of innate immune response in TLR4-activated
human monocytes.

Kim S(1), Becker J(2), Bechheim M(3), Kaiser V(3), Noursadeghi M(4), Fricker
N(2), Beier E(3), Klaschik S(5), Boor P(6), Hess T(2), Hofmann A(2), Holdenrieder
S(7), Wendland JR(8), Fröhlich H(9), Hartmann G(7), Nöthen MM(2), Müller-Myhsok
B(10), Pütz B(11), Hornung V(3), Schumacher J(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127, Germany [2]
Department of Genomics, Life &Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127,
Germany [3] Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127,
Germany.
(2)1] Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127, Germany [2]
Department of Genomics, Life &Brain Center, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127,
Germany.
(3)Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Bonn, Bonn 53127, Germany.
(4)Division of Infection and Immunity, University College London, London WC1E
6BT, UK.
(5)Department for Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University of Bonn,
Bonn 53127, Germany.
(6)Institute of Pathology and Department of Nephrology, University Clinic of RWTH
Aachen, Aachen 52074, Germany.
(7)Institute for Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Pharmacology, University of
Bonn, Bonn 53127, Germany.
(8)Worldwide R&D, Pfizer Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
(9)Bonn-Aachen International Center for IT (B-IT), University of Bonn, Bonn
53113, Germany.
(10)1] Statistical Genetics, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich 80804,
Germany [2] Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich 80804, Germany
[3] Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69
3GL, UK.
(11)Statistical Genetics, Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Munich 80804,
Germany.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) play a key role in innate immunity. Apart from their
function in host defense, dysregulation in TLR signalling can confer risk to
autoimmune diseases, septic shock or cancer. Here we report genetic variants and 
transcripts that are active only during TLR signalling and contribute to
interindividual differences in immune response. Comparing unstimulated versus
TLR4-stimulated monocytes reveals 1,471 expression quantitative trait loci
(eQTLs) that are unique to TLR4 stimulation. Among these we find functional SNPs 
for the expression of NEU4, CCL14, CBX3 and IRF5 on TLR4 activation. Furthermore,
we show that SNPs conferring risk to primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC),
inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and celiac disease are immune response eQTLs for
PDGFB and IL18R1. Thus, PDGFB and IL18R1 represent plausible candidates for
studying the pathophysiology of these disorders in the context of TLR4
activation. In summary, this study presents novel insights into the genetic basis
of the innate immune response and exemplifies the value of eQTL studies in the
context of exogenous cell stimulation.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms6236 
PMID: 25327457  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Dec 9;111(49):17438-43. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1418516111. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

IKKβ is an IRF5 kinase that instigates inflammation.

Ren J(1), Chen X(1), Chen ZJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390
Zhijian.Chen@UTSouthwestern.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Dec 9;111(49):17348-9.

The transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is essential for
the induction of inflammatory cytokines, but the mechanism by which IRF5 is
activated is not well understood. Here we present evidence that the kinase IKKβ
phosphorylates and activates IRF5 in response to stimulation in several
inflammatory pathways, including those emanated from Toll-like receptors and
retinoic acid-inducible gene I-like receptors. IKKβ phosphorylates mouse IRF5 at 
specific residues, including serine 445 (S446 in human IRF5 isoform 1), as
evidenced by mass spectrometry analysis and detection with a phosphospecific
antibody. Recombinant IKKβ phosphorylated IRF5 at Ser-445 in vitro, and a point
mutation of this serine abolished IRF5 activation and cytokine production.
Depletion or pharmacologic inhibition of IKKβ prevented IRF5 phosphorylation.
These results indicate that IKKβ is an IRF5 kinase that instigates inflammation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1418516111 
PMCID: PMC4267374
PMID: 25326420  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Dec 9;111(49):17432-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1418399111. Epub 2014 Oct 17.

Protein kinase IKKβ-catalyzed phosphorylation of IRF5 at Ser462 induces its
dimerization and nuclear translocation in myeloid cells.

Lopez-Pelaez M(1), Lamont DJ(2), Peggie M(1), Shpiro N(1), Gray NS(3), Cohen
P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, and.
(2)College of Life Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD1 5EH, Scotland,
United Kingdom; and.
(3)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215.
(4)Medical Research Council Protein Phosphorylation and Ubiquitylation Unit, and 
p.cohen@dundee.ac.uk.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Dec 9;111(49):17348-9.

The siRNA knockdown of IFN Regulatory Factor 5 (IRF5) in the human plasmacytoid
dendritic cell line Gen2.2 prevented IFNβ production induced by compound CL097, a
ligand for Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7). CL097 also stimulated the phosphorylation
of IRF5 at Ser462 and stimulated the nuclear translocation of wild-type IRF5, but
not the IRF5[Ser462Ala] mutant. The CL097-stimulated phosphorylation of IRF5 at
Ser462 and its nuclear translocation was prevented by the pharmacological
inhibition of protein kinase IKKβ or the siRNA knockdown of IKKβ or its
"upstream" activator, the protein kinase TAK1. Similar results were obtained in a
murine macrophage cell line stimulated with the TLR7 agonist compound R848 or the
nucleotide oligomerization domain 1 (NOD1) agonist KF-1B. IKKβ phosphorylated
IRF5 at Ser462 in vitro and induced the dimerization of wild-type IRF5 but not
the IRF5[S462A] mutant. These findings demonstrate that IKKβ activates two
"master" transcription factors of the innate immune system, IRF5 and NF-κB.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1418399111 
PMCID: PMC4267347
PMID: 25326418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Oct 21;111(42):E4513-22. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1406985111. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

Mapping of transcription factor motifs in active chromatin identifies IRF5 as key
regulator in classical Hodgkin lymphoma.

Kreher S(1), Bouhlel MA(2), Cauchy P(3), Lamprecht B(4), Li S(1), Grau M(5),
Hummel F(1), Köchert K(1), Anagnostopoulos I(6), Jöhrens K(6), Hummel M(7),
Hiscott J(8), Wenzel SS(9), Lenz P(5), Schneider M(10), Küppers R(10),
Scheidereit C(11), Giefing M(12), Siebert R(13), Rajewsky K(11), Lenz G(9),
Cockerill PN(3), Janz M(1), Dörken B(4), Bonifer C(14), Mathas S(15).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, 13125 Berlin, Germany; Hematology,
Oncology, and Tumor Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353 Berlin,
Germany;
(2)Leeds Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Leeds, Leeds LS9 7TF,
United Kingdom;
(3)School of Cancer Sciences, College of Medical and Dental Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, United Kingdom;
(4)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, 13125 Berlin, Germany; Hematology,
Oncology, and Tumor Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353 Berlin,
Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ),
69120 Heidelberg, Germany;
(5)Department of Physics, Philipps University, 35052 Marburg, Germany;
(6)Institute of Pathology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin,
Germany;
(7)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120
Heidelberg, Germany; Institute of Pathology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
10117 Berlin, Germany;
(8)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Institute of Florida, Port St. Lucie, FL 34987;
(9)Hematology, Oncology, and Tumor Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin
Berlin, 13353 Berlin, Germany;
(10)Institute of Cell Biology (Cancer Research), University of Duisburg-Essen,
45122 Essen, Germany;
(11)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, 13125 Berlin, Germany;
(12)Institute of Human Genetics, Christian-Albrechts University Kiel and
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, 24105 Kiel, Germany; and
Institute of Human Genetics, Polish Academy of Sciences, 60-479 Poznan, Poland.
(13)Institute of Human Genetics, Christian-Albrechts University Kiel and
University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, 24105 Kiel, Germany; and.
(14)School of Cancer Sciences, College of Medical and Dental Sciences, University
of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, United Kingdom; c.bonifer@bham.ac.uk
stephan.mathas@charite.de.
(15)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, 13125 Berlin, Germany;
Hematology, Oncology, and Tumor Immunology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin,
13353 Berlin, Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), German Cancer Research
Center (DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany; c.bonifer@bham.ac.uk
stephan.mathas@charite.de.

Deregulated transcription factor (TF) activities are commonly observed in
hematopoietic malignancies. Understanding tumorigenesis therefore requires
determining the function and hierarchical role of individual TFs. To identify TFs
central to lymphomagenesis, we identified lymphoma type-specific accessible
chromatin by global mapping of DNaseI hypersensitive sites and analyzed enriched 
TF-binding motifs in these regions. Applying this unbiased approach to classical 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), a common B-cell-derived lymphoma with a complex pattern of
deregulated TFs, we discovered interferon regulatory factor (IRF) sites among the
top enriched motifs. High-level expression of the proinflammatory TF IRF5 was
specific to HL cells and crucial for their survival. Furthermore, IRF5 initiated 
a regulatory cascade in human non-Hodgkin B-cell lines and primary murine B cells
by inducing the TF AP-1 and cooperating with NF-κB to activate essential
characteristic features of HL. Our strategy efficiently identified a lymphoma
type-specific key regulator and uncovered a tumor promoting role of IRF5.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1406985111 
PMCID: PMC4210307
PMID: 25288773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Diabetes. 2015 Mar;64(3):937-46. doi: 10.2337/db14-0929. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

Loss of NADPH oxidase-derived superoxide skews macrophage phenotypes to delay
type 1 diabetes.

Padgett LE(1), Burg AR(1), Lei W(1), Tse HM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology, Comprehensive Diabetes Center, School of Medicine,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL.
(2)Department of Microbiology, Comprehensive Diabetes Center, School of Medicine,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL htse@uab.edu.

Macrophages are early islet-infiltrating cells seen in type 1 diabetes (T1D).
While proinflammatory M1 macrophages induce T1D, M2 macrophages have been shown
to delay this autoimmune disease in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice, but the
environmental cues that govern macrophage polarization and differentiation remain
unresolved. We previously demonstrated the importance of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS) in T1D, as NOD mice deficient in NADPH oxidase (NOX)-derived superoxide
(Ncf1(m1J)) were protected against T1D partly because of blunted Toll-like
receptor-dependent macrophage responses. We provide evidence that NOX-derived ROS
contribute to macrophage differentiation in T1D. During spontaneous diabetes
progression, T1D-resistant NOD.Ncf1(m1J) islet-resident macrophages displayed a
dampened M1 and increased M2 phenotype. The transfer of diabetogenic T cells into
NOX-deficient NOD.Rag.Ncf1(m1J) recipients resulted in decreased TNF-α(+) and
IL-1β(+) islet-infiltrating M1 macrophages and a concomitant enhancement in
arginase-1(+) M2 macrophages. Mechanistic analysis of superoxide-deficient bone
marrow-derived macrophages revealed a marked diminution in a proinflammatory M1
phenotype due to decreased P-STAT1 (Y701) and interferon regulatory factor 5
compared with NOD mice. We have therefore defined a novel mechanistic link
between NOX-derived ROS and macrophage phenotypes, and implicated superoxide as
an important factor in macrophage differentiation. Thus, targeting macrophage
redox status may represent a promising therapy in halting human T1D.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as long
as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, and the
work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/db14-0929 
PMCID: PMC4338593
PMID: 25288672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Tissue Antigens. 2014 Nov;84(5):465-70. doi: 10.1111/tan.12441. Epub 2014 Oct 6.

IRF5rs2004640 single nucleotide polymorphism is associated with susceptibility to
rheumatoid arthritis in South Indian Tamils.

Negi VS(1), Muralidharan N, Mehra S, Devaraju P, Mariaselvam CM, Gulati R, Salah 
S, Fortier C, Charron D, Krishnamoorthy R, Tamouza R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate
Medical Education and Research (JIPMER), Puducherry, India.

Polymorphism of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), a latent transcription
factor gene has been associated with various auto-immune diseases. Our aim was to
study the IRF5rs2004640 gene polymorphism and its association with disease
susceptibility, disease phenotype and treatment response in South Indian Tamil
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).The study was conducted on 217 RA
patients fulfilling the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 2010 criteria and 
482 healthy controls (HCs) without family history of autoimmune disease. The
IRF5rs2004640 genotyping was performed using a TaqMan 5' allelic discrimination
assay. We found that the IRF5rs2004640T allele [P < 0.0001, odds ratio (OR) 3.25,
95% confidence interval (CI) 2.55-4.12] and TT genotype (P < 0.0001, OR 4.60, 95%
CI 3.23-6.57) were significantly more frequent in RA patients as compared with
HCs. No association was found between IRF5rs2004640 polymorphism, clinical
manifestations, autoantibody profile and treatment response. IRF5rs2004640 T
(mutant) allele may be a susceptibility factor conferring risk for RA in South
Indian Tamils, whereas G allele (wild type) may be protective.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tan.12441 
PMID: 25284481  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 3;9(10):e108553. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108553.
eCollection 2014.

Gene expression during the generation and activation of mouse neutrophils:
implication of novel functional and regulatory pathways.

Ericson JA(1), Duffau P(2), Yasuda K(2), Ortiz-Lopez A(1), Rothamel K(1), Rifkin 
IR(2), Monach PA(2); ImmGen Consortium.

Collaborators: Best AJ, Knell J, Goldrath A, Jojic V, Koller D, Shay T, Regev A, 
Cohen N, Brennan P, Brenner M, Kim F, Rao TN, Wagers A, Heng T, Ericson J,
Rothamel K, Ortiz-Lopez A, Mathis D, Benoist C, Bezman NA, Sun JC, Min-Oo G, Kim 
CC, Lanier LL, Miller J, Brown B, Merad M, Gautier EL, Jakubzick C, Randolph GJ, 
Monach P, Blair DA, Dustin ML, Shinton SA, Hardy RR, Laidlaw D, Collins J, Gazit 
R, Rossi DJ, Malhotra N, Sylvia K, Kang J, Kreslavsky T, Fletcher A, Elpek K,
Bellemare-Pelletier A, Malhotra D, Turley S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA, United States of America.
(2)Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA,
United States of America.

As part of the Immunological Genome Project (ImmGen), gene expression was
determined in unstimulated (circulating) mouse neutrophils and three populations 
of neutrophils activated in vivo, with comparison among these populations and to 
other leukocytes. Activation conditions included serum-transfer arthritis
(mediated by immune complexes), thioglycollate-induced peritonitis, and uric
acid-induced peritonitis. Neutrophils expressed fewer genes than any other
leukocyte population studied in ImmGen, and down-regulation of genes related to
translation was particularly striking. However, genes with expression relatively 
specific to neutrophils were also identified, particularly three genes of unknown
function: Stfa2l1, Mrgpr2a and Mrgpr2b. Comparison of genes up-regulated in
activated neutrophils led to several novel findings: increased expression of
genes related to synthesis and use of glutathione and of genes related to uptake 
and metabolism of modified lipoproteins, particularly in neutrophils elicited by 
thioglycollate; increased expression of genes for transcription factors in the
Nr4a family, only in neutrophils elicited by serum-transfer arthritis; and
increased expression of genes important in synthesis of prostaglandins and
response to leukotrienes, particularly in neutrophils elicited by uric acid.
Up-regulation of genes related to apoptosis, response to microbial products, NFkB
family members and their regulators, and MHC class II expression was also seen,
in agreement with previous studies. A regulatory model developed from the ImmGen 
data was used to infer regulatory genes involved in the changes in gene
expression during neutrophil activation. Among 64, mostly novel, regulatory genes
predicted to influence these changes in gene expression, Irf5 was shown to be
important for optimal secretion of IL-10, IP-10, MIP-1α, MIP-1β, and TNF-α by
mouse neutrophils in vitro after stimulation through TLR9. This data-set and its 
analysis using the ImmGen regulatory model provide a basis for additional
hypothesis-based research on the importance of changes in gene expression in
neutrophils in different conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108553 
PMCID: PMC4184787
PMID: 25279834  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Clin Periodontol. 2014 Dec;41(12):1122-31. doi: 10.1111/jcpe.12314. Epub 2014
Nov 15.

A large candidate-gene association study suggests genetic variants at IRF5 and
PRDM1 to be associated with aggressive periodontitis.

Schaefer AS(1), Jochens A, Dommisch H, Graetz C, Jockel-Schneider Y, Harks I,
Staufenbiel I, Meyle J, Eickholz P, Folwaczny M, Laine M, Noack B, Wijmenga C,
Lieb W, Bruckmann C, Schreiber S, Jepsen S, Loos BG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University,
Kiel, Germany.

AIM: Epidemiological and clinical studies indicated a relationship of
periodontitis with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We aimed to identify shared genetic
susceptibility loci of RA and periodontitis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-seven risk genes of genome-wide significance of RA
and SLE were genotyped in a German case-control sample of aggressive
periodontitis (AgP), using Immunochip genotyping arrays (Illumina, 600 cases,
1440 controls) and Affymetrix 500 K Genotyping Arrays (280 cases and 983
controls). Significant associations were replicated in 168 Dutch AgP cases and
679 controls and adjusted for the confounders smoking and sex.
RESULTS: Variants at IRF5 and PRDM1 showed association with AgP. Upon covariate
adjustment for smoking and sex, the most strongly associated variant at IRF5 was 
the rare variant rs62481981 (ppooled  = 0.0012, odds ratio [OR] = 3.1, 95%
confidence interval [95% CI] = 1.6-6.1; 801 cases, 1476 controls).Within PRDM1 it
was rs6923419 (ppooled  = 0.004, OR = 0.7, 95% CI = 0.6-0.9; 833 cases, 1440
controls). The associations lost significance after correction for multiple
testing in the replication. Both genes are implicated in beta-interferon
signalling and are also genome-wide associated with SLE and inflammatory bowel
disease.
CONCLUSION: The study gives no definite evidence for a pathogenic genetic link of
periodontitis and RA but suggests IRF5 and PRDM1 as shared susceptibility
factors.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpe.12314 
PMID: 25263394  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 2015 Feb;35(2):71-8. doi: 10.1089/jir.2014.0023. Epub 
2014 Sep 26.

Activation and function of interferon regulatory factor 5.

Ryzhakov G(1), Eames HL, Udalova IA.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal
Sciences, Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford , Oxford,
United Kingdom .

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a crucial transcription factor in a
number of immune and homeostatic processes, including host defense against
pathogens, tumorigenesis, and autoimmunity. Upon induction of immune signaling
pathways, IRF5 undergoes post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation
and ubiqutination, which are believed to trigger IRF5 nuclear translocation from 
the cytosol, followed by recruitment to promoters where transcription of its gene
targets is initiated. In this review, we systematically analyze the data
published in the last decade on IRF5 activation, including the role of
post-translational modifications and the proposed enzymes targeting IRF5 in this 
process. We discuss suggested models of IRF5 activation in connection to
pathway-specific functions of IRF5.

DOI: 10.1089/jir.2014.0023 
PMID: 25259415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Mol Med. 2015 Feb 5;20:559-68. doi: 10.2119/molmed.2014.00185.

C1q-mediated repression of human monocytes is regulated by leukocyte-associated
Ig-like receptor 1 (LAIR-1).

Son M(1), Diamond B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Autoimmune and Musculoskeletal Diseases, Feinstein Institute for
Medical Research, Manhasset, New York, United States of America.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized 
by abnormal function of both the innate and the adaptive immune system, leading
to a loss of tolerance to self-antigens. Monocytes are a key component of the
innate immune system and are efficient producers of multiple cytokines. In SLE,
inappropriate activation of monocytes is thought to contribute to the loss of
self-tolerance. In this study, we demonstrate that type 1 interferon (IFN)
production by CpG-challenged monocytes can be suppressed by C1q through
activating leukocyte-associated Ig-like receptor-1 (LAIR-1), which contains
immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motifs (ITIMs). The phosphorylation of
LAIR-1 and the interaction of LAIR-1 with SH2 domain-containing protein tyrosine 
phosphatase-1 (SHP-1) were enhanced after LAIR-1 engagement by C1q. Moreover,
engagement of LAIR-1 by C1q inhibited nuclear translocation of interferon
regulatory factor (IRF)-3 and IRF5 in CpG-stimulated monocytes. These data
suggest a model in which LAIR-1 engagement by C1q helps maintain monocyte
tolerance, specifically with respect to Toll-like receptor-9-mediated monocyte
activation.

DOI: 10.2119/molmed.2014.00185 
PMCID: PMC4365071
PMID: 25247291  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Inflammation. 2015 Apr;38(2):800-11. doi: 10.1007/s10753-014-9990-2.

Aurora kinase a regulates m1 macrophage polarization and plays a role in
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.

Ding L(1), Gu H, Gao X, Xiong S, Zheng B.

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Infection and Immunity, Institutes of Biology and
Medical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215123, China.

Macrophage polarization is a dynamic and integral process of tissue inflammation 
and remodeling. Here we demonstrate an important role of Aurora kinase A in the
regulation of inflammatory M1 macrophage polarization. We found that there was an
elevated expression of Aurora-A in M1 macrophages and inhibition of Aurora-A by
small molecules or specific siRNA selectively led to the suppression of M1
polarization, sparing over the M2 macrophage differentiation. At the molecular
level, we found that the effects of Aurora-A in M1 macrophages were mediated
through the down-regulation of NF-κB pathway and subsequent IRF5 expression. In
an autoimmune disease model, experimental autoimmune encephalitis (EAE),
treatment with Aurora kinase inhibitor blocked the disease development and
shifted the macrophage phenotype from inflammatory M1 to anti-inflammatory M2.
Thus, this study reveals a novel function of Aurora-A in controlling the
polarization of macrophages, and modification of Aurora-A activity may lead to a 
new therapeutic approach for chronic inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-014-9990-2 
PMID: 25227280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Hum Mol Genet. 2015 Jan 15;24(2):582-96. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddu455. Epub 2014 Sep
8.

The IRF5-TNPO3 association with systemic lupus erythematosus has two components
that other autoimmune disorders variably share.

Kottyan LC(1), Zoller EE(2), Bene J(3), Lu X(3), Kelly JA(4), Rupert AM(5),
Lessard CJ(6), Vaughn SE(3), Marion M(7), Weirauch MT(8), Namjou B(3), Adler
A(4), Rasmussen A(4), Glenn S(4), Montgomery CG(4), Hirschfield GM(9), Xie G(10),
Coltescu C(11), Amos C(12), Li H(6), Ice JA(4), Nath SK(4), Mariette X(13),
Bowman S(14); UK Primary Sjögren's Syndrome Registry, Rischmueller M(15), Lester 
S(16), Brun JG(17), Gøransson LG(18), Harboe E(18), Omdal R(18),
Cunninghame-Graham DS(19), Vyse T(19), Miceli-Richard C(13), Brennan MT(20),
Lessard JA(21), Wahren-Herlenius M(22), Kvarnström M(22), Illei GG(23), Witte
T(24), Jonsson R(25), Eriksson P(26), Nordmark G(27), Ng WF(28); UK Primary
Sjögren's Syndrome Registry, Anaya JM(29), Rhodus NL(30), Segal BM(31), Merrill
JT(4), James JA(32), Guthridge JM(4), Scofield RH(33), Alarcon-Riquelme M(34),
Bae SC(35), Boackle SA(36), Criswell LA(37), Gilkeson G(38), Kamen DL(38), Jacob 
CO(39), Kimberly R(40), Brown E(40), Edberg J(40), Alarcón GS(40), Reveille
JD(41), Vilá LM(42), Petri M(43), Ramsey-Goldman R(44), Freedman BI(45), Niewold 
T(46), Stevens AM(47), Tsao BP(48), Ying J(49), Mayes MD(49), Gorlova OY(49),
Wakeland W(50), Radstake T(51), Martin E(52), Martin J(52), Siminovitch K(53),
Moser Sivils KL(4), Gaffney PM(4), Langefeld CD(7), Harley JB(54), Kaufman
KM(54).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology and US
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA
leah.kottyan@cchmc.org.
(2)Division of Rheumatology, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology and
leah.kottyan@cchmc.org.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology and.
(4)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(5)Division of Biomedical Informatics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical
Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(6)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research 
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA Department of Pathology and.
(7)Department of Biostatistical Sciences and Center for Public Health Genomics
and.
(8)Division of Rheumatology, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology and US
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA Division of
Biomedical Informatics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(9)NIHR Biomedical Research Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(10)Mount Sinai Hospital Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Toronto, ON,
Canada.
(11)Liver Centre, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(12)Department of Community and Family Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine,
Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, USA.
(13)Department of Rheumatology, Hôpitaux Universitaires Paris-Sud, INSERM U1012, 
Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France.
(14)Rheumatology Department, University Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(15)The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Adelaide, Australia.
(16)The Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Adelaide, Australia The University of Adelaide,
Adelaide, Australia.
(17)Institute of Internal Medicine, University of Bergen, Bergen, Norway
Department of Rheumatology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(18)Clinical Immunology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Stavanger
University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway.
(19)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, King's College London, London, 
UK.
(20)Department of Oral Medicine, Carolinas Medical Center, Charlotte, NC, USA.
(21)Valley Bone and Joint Clinic, Grand Forks, ND, USA.
(22)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(23)National Institute of Dental and Craniofacial Research, NIH, Bethesda, MD,
USA.
(24)Hannover Medical School, Hanover, Germany.
(25)Department of Rheumatology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway
Broegelmann Research Laboratory, The Gade Institute, University of Bergen,
Bergen, Norway.
(26)Department of Rheumatology, Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Faculty of
Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden.
(27)Department of Medical Sciences, Rheumatology, Uppsala University, Uppsala,
Sweden.
(28)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne,
UK.
(29)Center for Autoimmune Diseases Research (CREA), Universidad del Rosario,
Bogotá, Colombia.
(30)Department of Oral Surgery, University of Minnesota School of Dentistry,
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(31)Division of Rheumatology, University of Minnesota Medical School,
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(32)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA Department of Medicine, University of Oklahoma
Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(33)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA Division of Veterans Affairs Medical Center,
Oklahoma City, OK, USA Department of Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(34)Arthritis and Clinical Immunology Research Program, Oklahoma Medical Research
Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK, USA de Genómica e Investigación Oncológica
(GENYO), Pfizer-Universidad de Granada-Junta de Andalucia, Granada, Spain.
(35)Department of Rheumatology, Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic
Diseases, Seoul, South Korea.
(36)Division of Rheumatology, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, 
CO, USA.
(37)Division of Rheumatology, Rosalind Russell Medical Research Center for
Arthritis, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(38)Division of Rheumatology and Immunology, Medical University of South
Carolina, Charleston, SC, USA.
(39)Divison of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases, Molecular Microbiology and
Immunology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, CA, USA.
(40)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(41)Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunogenetics, The Univeristy of Texas
Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(42)University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus, San Juan, Puerto Rico,
USA.
(43)Division of Rheumatology, Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(44)Division of Rheumatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(45)Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(46)Division of Rheumatology and Immunology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(47)University of Washington and Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, WA, USA.
(48)David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, CA,
USA.
(49)MD Anderson Cancer Center, University of Texas, Houston, TX, USA.
(50)University of Texas Southwestern Medical School, Dallas, TX, USA.
(51)Department of Rheumatology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center,
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(52)Instituto de Parasitología y Biomedicina López Neyra Avda, Granada, Spain
and.
(53)Mount Sinai Hospital Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada
Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(54)Division of Rheumatology, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology and US 
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

Exploiting genotyping, DNA sequencing, imputation and trans-ancestral mapping, we
used Bayesian and frequentist approaches to model the IRF5-TNPO3 locus
association, now implicated in two immunotherapies and seven autoimmune diseases.
Specifically, in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), we resolved separate
associations in the IRF5 promoter (all ancestries) and with an extended European 
haplotype. We captured 3230 IRF5-TNPO3 high-quality, common variants across 5
ethnicities in 8395 SLE cases and 7367 controls. The genetic effect from the IRF5
promoter can be explained by any one of four variants in 5.7 kb (P-valuemeta = 6 
× 10(-49); OR = 1.38-1.97). The second genetic effect spanned an 85.5-kb,
24-variant haplotype that included the genes IRF5 and TNPO3 (P-valuesEU =
10(-27)-10(-32), OR = 1.7-1.81). Many variants at the IRF5 locus with previously 
assigned biological function are not members of either final credible set of
potential causal variants identified herein. In addition to the known
biologically functional variants, we demonstrated that the risk allele of
rs4728142, a variant in the promoter among the lowest frequentist probability and
highest Bayesian posterior probability, was correlated with IRF5 expression and
differentially binds the transcription factor ZBTB3. Our analytical strategy
provides a novel framework for future studies aimed at dissecting etiological
genetic effects. Finally, both SLE elements of the statistical model appear to
operate in Sjögren's syndrome and systemic sclerosis whereas only the IRF5-TNPO3 
gene-spanning haplotype is associated with primary biliary cirrhosis,
demonstrating the nuance of similarity and difference in autoimmune disease risk 
mechanisms at IRF5-TNPO3.

Published by Oxford University Press 2014. This work is written by (a) US
Government employee(s) and is in the public domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddu455 
PMCID: PMC4275071
PMID: 25205108  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Cell Rep. 2014 Sep 11;8(5):1308-17. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.07.034. Epub 2014 
Aug 21.

IRF5:RelA interaction targets inflammatory genes in macrophages.

Saliba DG(1), Heger A(2), Eames HL(1), Oikonomopoulos S(3), Teixeira A(3), Blazek
K(1), Androulidaki A(4), Wong D(3), Goh FG(1), Weiss M(1), Byrne A(1), Pasparakis
M(4), Ragoussis J(3), Udalova IA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive,
Oxford OX37FY, UK.
(2)CGAT, MRC Functional Genomics Unit, University of Oxford, South Parks Road,
Oxford OX13PT, UK.
(3)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK.
(4)Institute for Genetics, University of Cologne, Joseph-Stelzmann-Strasse 26,
Cologne 50931, Germany.
(5)Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology, University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive,
Oxford OX37FY, UK. Electronic address: irina.udalova@kennedy.ox.ac.uk.

Interferon Regulatory Factor 5 (IRF5) plays a major role in setting up an
inflammatory macrophage phenotype, but the molecular basis of its transcriptional
activity is not fully understood. In this study, we conduct a comprehensive
genome-wide analysis of IRF5 recruitment in macrophages stimulated with bacterial
lipopolysaccharide and discover that IRF5 binds to regulatory elements of highly 
transcribed genes. Analysis of protein:DNA microarrays demonstrates that IRF5
recognizes the canonical IRF-binding (interferon-stimulated response element
[ISRE]) motif in vitro. However, IRF5 binding in vivo appears to rely on its
interactions with other proteins. IRF5 binds to a noncanonical composite
PU.1:ISRE motif, and its recruitment is aided by RelA. Global gene expression
analysis in macrophages deficient in IRF5 and RelA highlights the direct role of 
the RelA:IRF5 cistrome in regulation of a subset of key inflammatory genes. We
map the RelA:IRF5 interaction domain and suggest that interfering with it would
offer selective targeting of macrophage inflammatory activities.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.07.034 
PMCID: PMC4471814
PMID: 25159141  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Elife. 2014 Aug 22;3:e04177. doi: 10.7554/eLife.04177.

Recognition of tumor cells by Dectin-1 orchestrates innate immune cells for
anti-tumor responses.

Chiba S(1), Ikushima H(1), Ueki H(1), Yanai H(1), Kimura Y(1), Hangai S(1),
Nishio J(1), Negishi H(1), Tamura T(2), Saijo S(3), Iwakura Y(4), Taniguchi T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology, Institute of Industrial Science, The
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Department of Molecular Immunology, Medical Mycology Research Center, Chiba
University, Chiba, Japan.
(4)Center for Animal Disease Models, Research Institute for Biomedical Sciences, 
Tokyo University of Science, Noda, Japan.

Comment in
    Elife. 2014;3:e04476.

The eradication of tumor cells requires communication to and signaling by cells
of the immune system. Natural killer (NK) cells are essential tumor-killing
effector cells of the innate immune system; however, little is known about
whether or how other immune cells recognize tumor cells to assist NK cells. Here,
we show that the innate immune receptor Dectin-1 expressed on dendritic cells and
macrophages is critical to NK-mediated killing of tumor cells that express
N-glycan structures at high levels. Receptor recognition of these tumor cells
causes the activation of the IRF5 transcription factor and downstream gene
induction for the full-blown tumoricidal activity of NK cells. Consistent with
this, we show exacerbated in vivo tumor growth in mice genetically deficient in
either Dectin-1 or IRF5. The critical contribution of Dectin-1 in the recognition
of and signaling by tumor cells may offer new insight into the anti-tumor immune 
system with therapeutic implications.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.04177 
PMCID: PMC4161974
PMID: 25149452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Clin Exp Immunol. 2014 Dec;178(3):428-37. doi: 10.1111/cei.12429.

Interferon regulatory factor 3 as key element of the interferon signature in
plasmacytoid dendritic cells from systemic lupus erythematosus patients: novel
genetic associations in the Mexican mestizo population.

Santana-de Anda K(1), Gómez-Martín D, Monsivais-Urenda AE, Salgado-Bustamante M, 
González-Amaro R, Alcocer-Varela J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology and Rheumatology, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias
Médicas y Nutrición, Salvador Zubirán, Mexico City, México.

Many genetic studies have found an association between interferon regulatory
factors (IRF) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE); however, specific dendritic cell (DC) alterations have not
been assessed. The aim of the present study was to address the expression of IRF3
and IRF5 on different DC subsets from SLE patients, as well as their association 
with interferon (IFN)-α production and novel SNPs. For the genetic association
analyses, 156 SLE patients and 272 healthy controls from the Mexican mestizo
population were included. From these, 36 patients and 36 controls were included
for functional analysis. Two IRF3 SNPs - rs2304206 and rs2304204 - were
determined. We found an increased percentage of circulating pDC in SLE patients
in comparison to controls (8.04 ± 1.48 versus 3.35 ± 0.8, P = 0.032). We also
observed enhanced expression of IRF3 (64 ± 6.36 versus 36.1 ± 5.57, P = 0.004)
and IRF5 (40 ± 5.25 versus 22.5 ± 2.6%, P = 0.010) restricted to this circulating
pDC subset from SLE patients versus healthy controls. This finding was associated
with higher IFN-α serum levels in SLE (160.2 ± 21 versus 106.1 ± 14 pg/ml, P =
0.036). Moreover, the IRF3 rs2304206 polymorphism was associated with increased
susceptibility to SLE [odds ratio (OR), 95% confidence interval (CI) = 2.401
(1.187-4.858), P = 0.021] as well as enhanced levels of serum type I IFN in SLE
patients who were positive for dsDNA autoantibodies. The IRF3 rs2304204 GG and AG
genotypes conferred decreased risk for SLE. Our findings suggest that the
predominant IRF3 expression on circulating pDC is a key element for the increased
IFN-α activation based on the interplay between the rs2304206 gene variant and
the presence of dsDNA autoantibodies in Mexican mestizo SLE patients.

© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1111/cei.12429 
PMCID: PMC4238870
PMID: 25130328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 1;9(8):e103609. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103609. eCollection
2014.

TRIpartite motif 21 (TRIM21) differentially regulates the stability of interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) isoforms.

Lazzari E(1), Korczeniewska J(2), Ní Gabhann J(1), Smith S(1), Barnes BJ(2),
Jefferies CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics, Research Institute, Royal College of
Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Rutgers Biomedical and
Health Sciences, Newark, New Jersey, United States of America, Rutgers Biomedical
and Health Sciences, New Jersey Medical School- Cancer Center, Newark, New
Jersey, United States of America.

IRF5 is a member of the Interferon Regulatory Factor (IRF) family of
transcription factors activated downstream of the Toll-Like receptors (TLRs).
Polymorphisms in IRF5 have been shown to be associated with the autoimmune
disease Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) and other autoimmune conditions,
suggesting a central role for IRF5 in the regulation of the immune response. Four
different IRF5 isoforms originate due to alternative splicing and to the presence
or absence of a 30 nucleotide insertion in IRF5 exon 6. Since the polymorphic
region disturbs a PEST domain, a region associated with protein degradation, we
hypothesized that the isoforms bearing the insertion might have increased
stability, thus explaining the association of individual IRF5 isoforms with SLE. 
As the E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIpartite Motif 21 (TRIM21) has been shown to
regulate the stability and hence activity of members of the IRF family, we
investigated whether IRF5 is subjected to regulation by TRIM21 and whether
dysregulation of this mechanism could explain the association of IRF5 with SLE.
Our results show that IRF5 is degraded following TLR7 activation and that TRIM21 
is involved in this process. Comparison of the individual IRF5 variants
demonstrates that isoforms generated by alternative splicing are resistant to
TRIM21-mediated degradation following TLR7 stimulation, thus providing a
functional link between isoforms expression and stability/activity which
contributes to explain the association of IRF5 with SLE.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103609 
PMCID: PMC4118895
PMID: 25084355  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 30;9(7):e103478. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103478.
eCollection 2014.

Interferon regulatory factor-5 deficiency ameliorates disease severity in the
MRL/lpr mouse model of lupus in the absence of a mutation in DOCK2.

Yasuda K(1), Watkins AA(1), Kochar GS(1), Wilson GE(1), Laskow B(1), Richez C(1),
Bonegio RG(1), Rifkin IR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Renal Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) polymorphisms are strongly associated with 
an increased risk of developing the autoimmune disease systemic lupus
erythematosus. In mouse lupus models, IRF5-deficiency was shown to reduce disease
severity consistent with an important role for IRF5 in disease pathogenesis.
However these mouse studies were confounded by the recent demonstration that the 
IRF5 knockout mouse line contained a loss-of-function mutation in the dedicator
of cytokinesis 2 (DOCK2) gene. As DOCK2 regulates lymphocyte trafficking and
Toll-like receptor signaling, this raised the possibility that some of the
protective effects attributed to IRF5 deficiency in the mouse lupus models may
instead have been due to DOCK2 deficiency. We have therefore here evaluated the
effect of IRF5-deficiency in the MRL/lpr mouse lupus model in the absence of the 
DOCK2 mutation. We find that IRF5-deficient (IRF5-/-) MRL/lpr mice develop much
less severe disease than their IRF5-sufficient (IRF5+/+) littermates. Despite
markedly lower serum levels of anti-nuclear autoantibodies and reduced total
splenocyte and CD4+ T cell numbers, IRF5-/- MRL/lpr mice have similar numbers of 
all splenic B cell subsets compared to IRF5+/+ MRL/lpr mice, suggesting that IRF5
is not involved in B cell development up to the mature B cell stage. However,
IRF5-/- MRL/lpr mice have greatly reduced numbers of spleen plasmablasts and bone
marrow plasma cells. Serum levels of B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS) were markedly
elevated in the MRL/lpr mice but no effect of IRF5 on serum BLyS levels was seen.
Overall our data demonstrate that IRF5 contributes to disease pathogenesis in the
MRL/lpr lupus model and that this is due, at least in part, to the role of IRF5
in plasma cell formation. Our data also suggest that combined therapy targeting
both IRF5 and BLyS might be a particularly effective therapeutic approach in
lupus.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103478 
PMCID: PMC4116215
PMID: 25076492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Oncoimmunology. 2014 May 15;3:e28862. eCollection 2014.

Role of cancer stem cell-associated inflammation in creating pro-inflammatory
tumorigenic microenvironments.

Jinushi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Center for Infection-Associated Cancer; Institute for Genetic
Medicine; Hokkaido University; Sapporo, Japan.

We identify novel mechanisms whereby chemoresistance enables cancer stem cells to
create pro-inflammatory tumor microenvironments. Chemoresistant cancer stem cells
promote M2 macrophage differentiation through interferon-regulatory factor-5
(IRF5)- and macrophage-colony stimulating factor (M-CSF)-dependent mechanisms and
produce various other cell-signaling factors that together fuel
inflammation-driven carcinogenesis. These findings clarify a molecular pathway
linking cancer "stemness" and pro-tumor inflammation in an immunosuppressive
niche.

DOI: 10.4161/onci.28862 
PMCID: PMC4091611
PMID: 25057449 


121. Thromb Res. 2014 Sep;134(3):686-92. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2014.06.025. Epub
2014 Jul 6.

Blood genomic profiling in extracranial- and intracranial atherosclerosis in
ischemic stroke patients.

Lee HB(1), Kim Y(1), Yoo H(2), Lee JM(2), Kim YK(3), Kim NK(3), Kim JK(2), Oh
SH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, Seongnam,
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, CHA University, Seongnam,
Republic of Korea.
(3)The Institute for Clinical Research, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA
University, Seongnam, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, CHA Bundang Medical Center, CHA University, Seongnam,
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ohsh72@chamc.co.kr.

OBJECTIVE: Extracranial- and intracranial atherosclerosis (ECAS and ICAS) have
been suggested to have different pathogeneses. Blood genomic profiling may
identify their unique molecular signatures.
METHODS: Whole gene microarray of peripheral blood was performed in 24 patients
with acute ischemic stroke (ECAS, n=12; ICAS, n=12) and 12 healthy controls.
Differential gene expression and gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) were
conducted. Plasma resistin levels were compared across independent samples of
stroke patients with ECAS (n=39), ICAS (n=20), and small vessel disease (SVD,
n=57).
RESULTS: Microarray revealed that 144 and 24 transcripts were altered in ECAS and
ICAS, respectively, compared to controls. All the transcripts that were
differentially expressed in ICAS were also differentially expressed in ECAS. A
total of 120 transcripts were differentially expressed only in ECAS. Gene sets
related to immune response and protein metabolism were altered in both ECAS and
ICAS, but the magnitude of gene alteration was higher in ECAS than in ICAS.
Several genes of interest including RETN, IRF5, CD163, and CHST13 were more
highly expressed in ECAS than in ICAS. Circulating resistin levels were elevated 
in independent samples of ECAS, but not in those of ICAS, compared to those of
SVDs.
CONCLUSIONS: ECAS showed prominent genomic alteration related to immune response 
compared to ICAS. Although there was no ECAS-specific gene to be identified on
microarray, the level of resistin expression was high on peripheral blood in
ECAS, suggesting that resistin is associated with the pathogenesis of ECAS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2014.06.025 
PMID: 25042724  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Genet Mol Res. 2014 Jun 16;13(2):4473-85. doi: 10.4238/2014.June.16.6.

Association between IRF5 polymorphisms and autoimmune diseases: a meta-analysis.

Tang L(1), Chen B(2), Ma B(3), Nie S(4).

Author information: 
(1)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Changsha Medical University, Changsha,
China.
(2)School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, China.
(3)Yunnan Walvax Biotechnology Co., Ltd., Kunming, Yunnan, China.
(4)School of Forensic Medicine, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, Yunnan,
China nieshengjie@126.com.

In this study, we investigated the association between 5 interferon regulatory
factor-5 (IRF5) single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and autoimmune diseases
using the Medline citation index. Twenty-eight studies with 74 comparisons,
including 16 rheumatoid arthritis (RA), 43 systemic lupus erythematous (SLE), 2
juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), 6 multiple sclerosis (MS), and 5 systemic
sclerosis (SSc) studies, were examined in the meta-analysis. The SNP rs2004640
was significantly associated with SLE, MS, and SSc, but not with JIA [odds ratio 
(OR)=1.06, 95% confidence interval (CI)=0.90-1.24, P=0.48] or RA (OR=1.03,
95%CI=0.95-1.11, P=0.44). A significant association was observed between
rs2280714 and SLE, MS, and SSc, but not RA (OR=1.01, 95%CI=0.94-1.09, P=0.80).
Rs10954213 was associated with the pathogenesis of SLE, RA, MS, and SSc.
rs2070197 and the exon 6 insertion were significantly associated with SLE.
Haplotypes containing rs2004640T and rs2280714T were significantly associated
with an increased risk of SLE, but not with RA. This meta-analysis certified that
IRF5 polymorphisms confer susceptibility to SLE, MS, and SSc. To further confirm 
the correlations between polymorphisms of IRF5 and autoimmune disease
susceptibility, studies involving a larger number of patients worldwide are
necessary.

DOI: 10.4238/2014.June.16.6 
PMID: 25036352  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. J Virol. 2014 Oct;88(19):11007-21. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01545-14. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Interferon regulatory factor 5-dependent immune responses in the draining lymph
node protect against West Nile virus infection.

Thackray LB(1), Shrestha B(1), Richner JM(1), Miner JJ(1), Pinto AK(1), Lazear
HM(1), Gale M Jr(2), Diamond MS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis,
Missouri, USA.
(2)Department of Immunology, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis,
Missouri, USA Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University School 
of Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA Department of Pathology and Immunology,
Washington University School of Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA The Center
for Human Immunology and Immunotherapy Programs, Washington University School of 
Medicine, Saint Louis, Missouri, USA diamond@borcim.wustl.edu.

Upon activation of Toll-like and RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathways, the
transcription factor IRF5 translocates to the nucleus and induces antiviral
immune programs. The recent discovery of a homozygous mutation in the
immunoregulatory gene guanine exchange factor dedicator of cytokinesis 2
(Dock2mu/mu) in several Irf5-/- mouse colonies has complicated interpretation of 
immune functions previously ascribed to IRF5. To define the antiviral functions
of IRF5 in vivo, we infected backcrossed Irf5-/-×Dock2wt/wt mice (here called
Irf5-/- mice) and independently generated CMV-Cre Irf5fl/fl mice with West Nile
virus (WNV), a pathogenic neurotropic flavivirus. Compared to congenic wild-type 
animals, Irf5-/- and CMV-Cre Irf5fl/fl mice were more vulnerable to WNV
infection, and this phenotype was associated with increased infection in
peripheral organs, which resulted in higher virus titers in the central nervous
system. The loss of IRF5, however, was associated with only small differences in 
the type I interferon response systemically and in the draining lymph node during
WNV infection. Instead, lower levels of several other proinflammatory cytokines
and chemokines, as well as fewer and less activated immune cells, were detected
in the draining lymph node 2 days after WNV infection. WNV-specific antibody
responses in Irf5-/- mice also were blunted in the context of live or inactivated
virus infection and this was associated with fewer antigen-specific memory B
cells and long-lived plasma cells. Our results with Irf5-/- mice establish a key 
role for IRF5 in shaping the early innate immune response in the draining lymph
node, which impacts the spread of virus infection, optimal B cell immunity, and
disease pathogenesis.IMPORTANCE: Although the roles of IRF3 and IRF7 in
orchestrating innate and adaptive immunity after viral infection are established,
the function of the related transcription factor IRF5 remains less certain. Prior
studies in Irf5-/- mice reported conflicting results as to the contribution of
IRF5 in regulating type I interferon and adaptive immune responses. The lack of
clarity may stem from a recently discovered homozygous loss-of-function mutation 
of the immunoregulatory gene Dock2 in several colonies of Irf5-/- mice. Here,
using a mouse model with a deficiency in IRF5 and wild-type Dock2 alleles, we
investigated how IRF5 modulates West Nile virus (WNV) pathogenesis and host
immune responses. Our in vivo studies indicate that IRF5 has a key role in
shaping the early proinflammatory cytokine response in the draining lymph node,
which impacts immunity and control of WNV infection.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01545-14 
PMCID: PMC4178807
PMID: 25031348  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Arthritis Res Ther. 2014 Jul 10;16(4):R146. doi: 10.1186/ar4608.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 genetic variants are associated with
cardiovascular disease in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

García-Bermúdez M, López-Mejías R, Genre F, Castañeda S, Llorca J,
González-Juanatey C, Corrales A, Ubilla B, Miranda-Filloy JA, Pina T,
Gómez-Vaquero C, Rodríguez-Rodríguez L, Fernández-Gutiérrez B, Balsa A,
Pascual-Salcedo D, López-Longo FJ, Carreira P, Blanco R, Martín J, González-Gay
MA.

INTRODUCTION: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a complex polygenic inflammatory
disease associated with accelerated atherosclerosis and increased cardiovascular 
(CV) disease risk. Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a regulator of type I
interferon induction. Recently, researchers have described an association between
multiple single-nucleotide polymorphisms of the IRF5 gene and some rheumatic
disorders. In this study, we aimed to evaluate whether three different haplotype 
blocks within the IRF5 locus which have been shown to alter the protein function 
are involved in the risk of CV events occurring in Spanish RA patients.
METHODS: Three IRF5 polymorphisms (rs2004640, rs2070197 and rs10954213)
representative of each haplotype group were genotyped by performing TaqMan assays
using a 7900HT Fast Real-Time PCR System with tissue from a total of 2,137
Spanish patients diagnosed with RA. Among them, 390 (18.2%) had experienced CV
events. The relationship of IRF5 genotypes and haplotypes to CV events was tested
using Cox regression.
RESULTS: Male sex, age at RA diagnosis and most traditional risk factors
(hypertension, dyslipidemia and smoking habit) were associated with increased
risk for CV events in the RA population. Interestingly, a protective effect of
both IRF5 rs2004640 GG and IRF5 rs10954213 GG genotypes against the risk for CV
events after adjusting the results for sex, age at RA diagnosis and traditional
CV disease risk factors was observed (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.6, 95% confidence
interval (CI) = 0.38 to 0.92, P = 0.02; and HR = 0.58, 95% CI = 0.36 to 0.95, P =
0.03, respectively). Moreover, we detected a protective effect of the GTG
haplotype against the risk for CV events after adjusting the results for
potential confounding factors (HR = 0.72, 95% CI = 0.56 to 0.93, P = 0.012).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results reveal that IRF5 gene variants are associated with risk 
of CV events in patients with RA.

DOI: 10.1186/ar4608 
PMCID: PMC4227041
PMID: 25011482  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Jun 25;15(7):11275-93. doi: 10.3390/ijms150711275.

Human mesenchymal stem cells modulate inflammatory cytokines after spinal cord
injury in rat.

Urdzíková LM(1), Růžička J(2), LaBagnara M(3), Kárová K(4), Kubinová Š(5),
Jiráková K(6), Murali R(7), Syková E(8), Jhanwar-Uniyal M(9), Jendelová P(10).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. urdzikl@saske.sk.
(2)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. j.ruzicka@biomed.cas.cz.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.
m.labagnara@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. karova@biomed.cas.cz.
(5)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. sarka.k@biomed.cas.cz.
(6)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. jirakova@biomed.cas.cz.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.
Raj_Murali@NYMC.edu.
(8)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic,
Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. sykova@biomed.cas.cz.
(9)Department of Neurosurgery, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.
meena_jhanwar@NYMC.edu.
(10)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Academy of Sciences of the Czech
Republic, Vídeňská 1083, Prague 14220, Czech Republic. jendel@biomed.cas.cz.

Transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) improves functional recovery in
experimental models of spinal cord injury (SCI); however, the mechanisms
underlying this effect are not completely understood. We investigated the effect 
of intrathecal implantation of human MSC on functional recovery, astrogliosis and
levels of inflammatory cytokines in rats using balloon-induced spinal cord
compression lesions. Transplanted cells did not survive at the lesion site of the
spinal cord; however, functional recovery was enhanced in the MSC-treated group
as was confirmed by the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) and the flat beam
test. Morphometric analysis showed a significantly higher amount of remaining
white matter in the cranial part of the lesioned spinal cords.
Immunohistochemical analysis of the lesions indicated the rearrangement of the
glial scar in MSC-treated animals. Real-time PCR analysis revealed an increased
expression of Irf5, Mrc1, Fgf2, Gap43 and Gfap. Transplantation of MSCs into a
lesioned spinal cord reduced TNFα, IL-4, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6 and IL-12 and
increased the levels of MIP-1α and RANTES when compared to saline-treated
controls. Intrathecal implantation of MSCs reduces the inflammatory reaction and 
apoptosis, improves functional recovery and modulates glial scar formation after 
SCI, regardless of cell survival. Therefore, repeated applications may prolong
the beneficial effects induced by MSC application.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms150711275 
PMCID: PMC4139782
PMID: 24968269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1169:143-58. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0882-0_14.

Evaluating the role of nucleic acid antigens in murine models of systemic lupus
erythematosus.

Watkins AA(1), Bonegio RG, Rifkin IR.

Author information: 
(1)Renal Section, Department of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine,
Boston, MA, USA.

Impaired apoptotic cell clearance is thought to contribute to the pathogenesis of
systemic autoimmune disease, in particular systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Endogenous RNA- and DNA-containing autoantigens released from dying cells can
engage Toll-like receptors (TLR) 7/8 and TLR9, respectively in a number of immune
cell types, thereby promoting innate and adaptive immune responses. Mouse models 
of lupus reliably phenocopy many of the characteristic features of SLE in humans 
and these models have proved invaluable in defining disease mechanisms. TLR7
signaling is essential for the development of autoantibodies to RNA and
RNA-associated proteins like Sm and RNP, while TLR9 signaling is important for
the development of antibodies to DNA and chromatin. TLR7 deficiency ameliorates
end-organ disease, but, surprisingly, TLR9 deficiency exacerbates disease,
possibly as a result of TLR7 overactivity in TLR9-deficient mice. Deficiency of
interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) inhibits autoantibody production and
ameliorates disease likely due to its role in both TLR7 and TLR9 signaling. In
this report we describe methods to analyze two commonly used mouse models of SLE 
in which TLRs and/or IRF5 have been shown to play a role in disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-0882-0_14 
PMID: 24957237  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Acta Neurol Scand. 2014 Oct;130(4):268-75. doi: 10.1111/ane.12269. Epub 2014 Jun 
18.

Prediction of response to interferon therapy in multiple sclerosis.

Sellebjerg F(1), Søndergaard HB, Koch-Henriksen N, Sørensen PS, Oturai AB.

Author information: 
(1)Danish Multiple Sclerosis Center, Department of Neurology, Copenhagen
University Hospital Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the genes encoding
interferon response factor (IRF)-5, IRF-8 and glypican-5 (GPC5) have been
associated with disease activity in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients treated with
interferon (IFN)-β. We analysed whether SNPs in the IRF5, IRF8 and GPC5 genes are
associated with clinical disease activity in MS patients beginning de novo
treatment with IFN-β.
METHODS: The SNPs rs2004640, rs3807306 and rs4728142 in IRF5, rs13333054 and
rs17445836 in IRF8 and rs10492503 in GPC5 were genotyped in 575 patients with
relapsing-remitting MS followed prospectively after the initiation of their first
treatment with IFN-β.
RESULTS: 62% of patients experienced relapses during the first 2 years of
treatment, and 32% had disability progression during the first 5 years of
treatment. Patients with a pretreatment annualized relapse rate >1 had an
increased risk of relapse (hazard ratio 1.53, 95% confidence interval 1.24-1.90) 
and progression (hazard ratio 1.48, 95% confidence interval 1.10-1.99) on
treatment and patients with breakthrough relapses in the form of relapses during 
the first 2 years of treatment had an increased risk of progression during the
first 5 years of treatment (hazard ratio 2.04, 95% confidence interval
1.47-2.85).The gene variants in IRF5, IRF8 and GPC5 were not associated with risk
of relapse or disease progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Pretreatment relapse rate and clinical disease activity during the
first 2 years of treatment may be associated with disease progression in MS
patients treated with IFN-β. Genetic analysis of the studied gene variants do not
provide additional information.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12269 
PMID: 24943672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Clin Immunol. 2014 Aug;153(2):343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.06.001. Epub 2014 
Jun 10.

IRF5-mediated signaling and implications for SLE.

Lazzari E(1), Jefferies CA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics, Research Institute, Royal College of
Surgeons in Ireland, 123 St Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, Ireland. Electronic
address: elisalazzari@rcsi.ie.
(2)Molecular and Cellular Therapeutics, Research Institute, Royal College of
Surgeons in Ireland, 123 St Stephen's Green, Dublin 2, Ireland. Electronic
address: cjefferies@rcsi.ie.

Transcription of the type I IFN genes is regulated by members of the Interferon
Regulatory Factor (IRF) family of transcription factors, composed in humans of 9 
distinct proteins. In addition to IRF3 and IRF7, the transcription factor IRF5
has been shown to be involved in type I IFN production and interestingly,
polymorphisms of the IRF5 gene in humans can result in risk or protective
haplotypes with regard to SLE susceptibility. In addition to regulation of type I
IFN expression, IRF5 is involved in other signaling pathways, including IgG
switching in B cells, macrophage polarization and apoptosis, and its role in SLE 
pathogenesis may therefore not be limited to dysregulated control of IFN
expression. In this review we will comprehensively discuss the role of IRF5 in
immune-mediated responses and its potential multifaceted role in conferring SLE
susceptibility.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.06.001 
PMID: 24928322  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Mucosal Immunol. 2015 Jan;8(1):68-79. doi: 10.1038/mi.2014.43. Epub 2014 May 28.

Protease-activated receptor 1 suppresses Helicobacter pylori gastritis via the
inhibition of macrophage cytokine secretion and interferon regulatory factor 5.

Chionh YT(1), Ng GZ(1), Ong L(2), Arulmuruganar A(2), Stent A(3), Saeed MA(1),
Wee JL(3), Sutton P(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Centre for Animal Biotechnology, School of Veterinary Science, University
of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia [2] Mucosal Immunology, Murdoch
Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria,
Australia.
(2)Mucosal Immunology, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal Children's
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Centre for Animal Biotechnology, School of Veterinary Science, University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

Chronic gastritis from Helicobacter pylori infection is a major factor in the
development of gastric adenocarcinoma. Factors that regulate gastritis severity
are important in determining which individuals are susceptible to H.
pylori-associated disease. Although protease-activated receptor 1 (PAR1) has been
identified as one such host factor, its mechanism of action is unknown. Using
chimeric mice, we demonstrated that PAR1-mediated protection against H. pylori
gastritis requires bone marrow-derived cells. Analyses of the gastric mucosa
revealed that PAR1 suppresses cellular infiltration and both T helper type 1
(Th1) and T helper type 17 (Th17) responses to infection. Moreover, PAR1
expression was associated with reduced vaccine-mediated protection against H.
pylori. Analyses of H. pylori-stimulated macrophages revealed that PAR1
activation suppressed secretion of interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23, key drivers of 
Th1 and Th17 immunity, respectively. Furthermore, PAR1 suppressed interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5), an important transcription factor for IL-12 and
IL-23, both in the infected mucosa and following bacterial stimulation. PAR1
suppression of IRF5 and IL-12/23 secretion by macrophages provides a novel
mechanism by which the host suppresses the mucosal Th1 and Th17 response to H.
pylori infection. Dysregulation of this process is likely an important factor in 
the susceptibility of some individuals to H. pylori-associated disease.

DOI: 10.1038/mi.2014.43 
PMID: 24866378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Vet Immunol Immunopathol. 2014 Jul 15;160(1-2):81-9. doi:
10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.03.017. Epub 2014 Apr 4.

Comparison of gene expression of immune mediators in lung and pulmonary lymph
node granulomas from cattle experimentally infected with Mycobacterium bovis.

Shu D(1), Heiser A(2), Wedlock DN(2), Luo D(3), de Lisle GW(4), Buddle BM(2).

Author information: 
(1)AgResearch, Hopkirk Research Institute, Private Bag 11008, Palmerston North
4442, New Zealand. Electronic address: dairu.shu@agresearch.co.nz.
(2)AgResearch, Hopkirk Research Institute, Private Bag 11008, Palmerston North
4442, New Zealand.
(3)AgResearch, Grasslands Research Centre, Palmerston North 4442, New Zealand.
(4)AgResearch, National Centre for Biosecurity and Infectious Diseases, PO Box
40063, Upper Hutt, New Zealand.

The cellular infiltrates and macrophage activation pathways may differ in
granulomas found in the lungs and pulmonary lymph nodes of cattle infected with
Mycobacterium bovis. The aim of this study was to compare the histopathology and 
gene expression profiles of cytokines and immune mediators for cattle which had
these lesions in both sites. Ten Friesian-cross, 15-16 month old cattle were
challenged intratracheally with 5 × 10(3)CFU of virulent M. bovis and killed and 
necropsied at 28 weeks after infection. Seven animals were found to have gross TB
granulomas in both their lungs and pulmonary lymph nodes (PLN) and these lesions 
were fully encapsulated with central necrosis and mineralisation. Neutrophil
infiltration was clearly involved in granuloma in lung whereas neutrophils were
limited in lesions of PLN. Comparisons were made of immune mediators from these
two sites from the same animals as well as those between lesioned PLN tissues and
non-lesioned prescapular lymph nodes (PSLN). Gene expressions of the immune
mediators were normalised using a housekeeping gene (U1), a monocyte/macrophage
marker (CD14) and a common leucocyte marker (CD45). mRNA expression of IFN-γ,
IL-17A, IRF5(1) and arginase 1 (Arg1) was significantly up-regulated in lung
compared to that for PLN (p<0.05), while mRNA expression of IFN-γ, IL-12p40,
TNF-α and iNOs for PLN was significantly higher than that for PSLN (p<0.05). In
addition, IL-10 mRNA expression was significantly higher for lung compared to PLN
when normalised for CD45 (p<0.05). The results suggested that the stronger
proinflammatory immune response in the lesioned lung may be a consequence of
enhanced expression of IRF5 promoting IFN-γ and IL-17 production. In contrast,
Arg1 expression in the lungs could facilitate the infection through competing
with iNOs for l-arginine, preventing generation of nitric oxide for clearance of 
M. bovis infection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetimm.2014.03.017 
PMID: 24852075  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nat Commun. 2014 May 13;5:3771. doi: 10.1038/ncomms4771.

Transcription factor IRF5 drives P2X4R+-reactive microglia gating neuropathic
pain.

Masuda T(1), Iwamoto S(2), Yoshinaga R(2), Tozaki-Saitoh H(1), Nishiyama A(3),
Mak TW(4), Tamura T(3), Tsuda M(2), Inoue K(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Molecular and System Pharmacology, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan [2] Core Research for Evolution Science and Technology, Japan
Science and Technology Agency, Tokyo 102-0076, Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular and System Pharmacology, Graduate School of
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kyushu University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka
812-8582, Japan.
(3)Department of Immunology, Yokohama City University Graduate School of
Medicine, 3-9 Fukuura, Kanazawa-ku, Yokohama 236-0004, Japan.
(4)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, 620 University
Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 2C1.

In response to neuronal injury or disease, microglia adopt distinct reactive
phenotypes via the expression of different sets of genes. Spinal microglia
expressing the purinergic P2X4 receptor (P2X4R) after peripheral nerve injury
(PNI) are implicated in neuropathic pain. Here we show that interferon regulatory
factor-5 (IRF5), which is induced in spinal microglia after PNI, is responsible
for direct transcriptional control of P2X4R. Upon stimulation of microglia by
fibronectin, IRF5 induced de novo expression of P2X4R by directly binding to the 
promoter region of the P2rx4 gene. Mice lacking Irf5 did not upregulate spinal
P2X4R after PNI, and also exhibited substantial resistance to pain
hypersensitivity. Furthermore, we found that expression of IRF5 in microglia is
regulated by IRF8. Thus, an IRF8-IRF5 transcriptional axis may contribute to
shifting spinal microglia toward a P2X4R-expressing reactive state after PNI.
These results may provide a new target for treating neuropathic pain.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms4771 
PMCID: PMC4024744
PMID: 24818655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 30;9(4):e94426. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094426. eCollection
2014.

Genetic polymorphism of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) correlates with
allograft acute rejection of liver transplantation.

Yu X(1), Wei B(2), Dai Y(1), Zhang M(2), Wu J(2), Xu X(2), Jiang G(2), Zheng
S(2), Zhou L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Lab of Combined Multi-Organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public Health,
the First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, Department of Surgery, the
First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou,
Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Although liver transplantation is one of the most efficient curative 
therapies of end stage liver diseases, recipients may suffer liver graft loss
opst-operation. IRF-5, a member of Interferon Regulatory Factors, functions as a 
key regulator in TLR4 cascade, and is capable of inducing inflammatory cytokines.
Although TLR4 has been proved to contribute to acute allograft rejection,
including after liver transplantation, the correlation between IRF5 gene and
acute rejection has not been elucidated yet.
METHODS: The study enrolled a total of 289 recipients, including 39 females and
250 males, and 39 recipients developed acute allograft rejection within 6 months 
post-transplantation. The allograft rejections were diagnosed by liver biopsies. 
Genome DNA of recipients was extracted from pre-operative peripheral blood.
Genotyping of IRF-5, including rs3757385, rs752637 and rs11761199, was performed,
followed by SNP frequency and Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium analysis.
RESULTS: The genetic polymorphism of rs3757385 was found associated with acute
rejection. G/G homozygous individuals were at higher risk of acute rejection,
with a P value of 0.042 (OR = 2.34 (1.07-5.10)).
CONCLUSIONS: IRF5, which transcriptionally activates inflammatory cytokines, is
genetically associated with acute rejection and might function as a risk factor
for acute rejection of liver transplantations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0094426 
PMCID: PMC4005731
PMID: 24788560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Immunol Res. 2014;2014:529167. doi: 10.1155/2014/529167. Epub 2014 Feb 17.

Insight into gene polymorphisms involved in toll-like receptor/interferon
signalling pathways for systemic lupus erythematosus in South East Asia.

Chai HC(1), Chua KH(2), Lim SK(3), Phipps ME(4).

Author information: 
(1)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University,
Sunway Campus, 46150 Selangor, Malaysia ; Department of Biomedical Science,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Biomedical Science, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya,
50603 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya, 50603 Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
(4)Jeffrey Cheah School of Medicine and Health Sciences, Monash University,
Sunway Campus, 46150 Selangor, Malaysia.

Polymorphisms in genes involved in toll-like receptor/interferon signalling
pathways have been reported previously to be associated with SLE in many
populations. This study aimed to investigate the role of seven single nucleotide 
polymorphisms within TNFAIP3, STAT4, and IRF5, which are involved in upstream and
downstream pathways of type I interferon production, in SLE in the South East
Asian populations. Genotyping of 360 Malaysian SLE patients and 430 normal
healthy individuals revealed that minor alleles of STAT4 rs7574865 and rs10168266
were associated with elevated risk of SLE in the Chinese and Malay patients,
respectively (P = 0.028, odds ratio (OR) = 1.42; P = 0.035, OR = 1.80,
respectively). Polymorphisms in TNFAIP3 and IRF5 did not show significant
associations with SLE in any of the ethnicities. Combined analysis of the Malays,
Chinese, and Indians for each SNP indicated that STAT4 rs10168266 was
significantly associated with the Malaysian SLE as a whole (P = 0.014; OR =
1.435). The meta-analysis of STAT4 rs10168266, which combined the data of other
studies and this study, further confirmed its importance as the risk factor for
SLE by having pooled OR of 1.559 and P value of <0.001.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/529167 
PMCID: PMC3987947
PMID: 24741605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2014 Feb;42(2):132-5.

[Anti-inflammatory effects of apoprotein AI are mediated via modulating
macrophage polarity].

[Article in Chinese]

Li Q(1), Zhai Z(2), Ma W(2), Qian Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical College,
Guilin 541001, China. Email: drquanzhongli@163.com.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical College,
Guilin 541001, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of high density
lipoprotein (HDL) by observing the effects of apoprotein (apo)AI, a major protein
component of HDL, on the inflammatory macrophage cell polarity.
METHODS: Cultured mice marrow-derived macrophages were stimulated with
lipopolysaccharide and interferon after 10 µg/ml of apoAI were added to the
macrophages for 24 hours. The expression of membrane molecules CD16/32, CD206
were detected by fluorescence activated cell sorting (FACS). ELISA was used to
detect the secretion of IL-10 and IL-12. Real-time quantitative PCR was used to
detect the mRNA expression of TLR4, MyD88 and IRF5.
RESULTS: Compared to macrophages stimulated by interferon and lipopolysaccharide 
but without pretreatment with apoAI, pre-incubation with apoAI significantly
downregulated the expression of CD16/32 (91.17% ± 1.99% vs.50.47% ± 1.02%, P <
0.05), IL-12 [(747.27 ± 3.74)pg/ml vs. (73.80 ± 4.56)pg/ml, P < 0.05],
upregulated the expression of CD206(0.33% ± 0.12% vs. 3.00% ± 0.36%, P < 0.05),
IL -10 expression [(23.56 ± 4.30) pg/ml vs.(32.91 ± 2.47) pg/ml, P < 0.05], and
reduced the mRNA expression of TLR4 (1.000 ± 0.025 vs.0.708 ± 0.003, P < 0.05) , 
MyD88 (1.591 ± 0.005 vs. 1.341 ± 0.005, P < 0.05) , IRF5 (0.954 ± 0.005 vs. 0.463
± 0.003, P < 0.05) .
CONCLUSION: ApoAI enhances the switch of inflammatory macrophages to
anti-inflammatory macrophages possibly through inhibiting TLR4-MyD88-IRF5
pathway.


PMID: 24735624  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Am J Transplant. 2014 May;14(5):1061-72. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12674. Epub 2014 Apr 7.

Characterization of transfusion-elicited acute antibody-mediated rejection in a
rat model of kidney transplantation.

Huang G(1), Wilson NA, Reese SR, Jacobson LM, Zhong W, Djamali A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin
School of Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI.

Animal models of antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) may provide important
evidence supporting proof of concept. We elicited donor-specific antibodies (DSA)
by transfusion of donor blood (Brown Norway RT1(n) ) into a complete mismatch
recipient (Lewis RT1(l) ) 3 weeks prior to kidney transplantation. Sensitized
recipients had increased anti-donor splenocyte IgG1, IgG2b and IgG2c DSA 1 week
after transplantation. Histopathology was consistent with ABMR characterized by
diffuse peritubular capillary C4d and moderate microvascular inflammation with
peritubular capillaritis + glomerulitis > 2. Immunofluorescence studies of kidney
allograft tissue demonstrated a greater CD68/CD3 ratio in sensitized animals,
primarily of the M1 (pro-inflammatory) phenotype, consistent with cytokine gene
analyses that demonstrated a predominant T helper (TH )1 (interferon-γ, IL-2)
profile. Immunoblot analyses confirmed the activation of the M1 macrophage
phenotype as interferon regulatory factor 5, inducible nitric oxide synthase and 
phagocytic NADPH oxidase 2 were significantly up-regulated. Clinical biopsy
samples in sensitized patients with acute ABMR confirmed the dominance of M1
macrophage phenotype in humans. Despite the absence of tubulitis, we were unable 
to exclude the effects of T cell-mediated rejection. These studies suggest that
M1 macrophages and TH 1 cytokines play an important role in the pathogenesis of
acute mixed rejection in sensitized allograft recipients.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American Society
of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12674 
PMCID: PMC4289595
PMID: 24708533  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Apr 8;111(14):5295-300. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1321427111. Epub 2014 Mar 21.

T cells down-regulate macrophage TNF production by IRAK1-mediated IL-10
expression and control innate hyperinflammation.

Inoue M(1), Arikawa T, Chen YH, Moriwaki Y, Price M, Brown M, Perfect JR,
Shinohara ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Immunology, Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious
Diseases, and Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University 
School of Medicine, Durham, NC 27710.

Endotoxemia is caused by excessive inflammation, but the immune system has
various mechanisms to avoid collateral organ damage in endotoxemia. A handful of 
reports have shown that innate immune responses are suppressed by the adaptive
immune system. However, the molecular mechanism by which adaptive immune cells
suppress innate inflammatory responses is not clear. Here, we report that T cells
are shown to interact with macrophages at the early stage of enodotoxemia and to 
prolong survival of mice through controlling TNF and IL-10 levels by macrophage
CD40 stimulation. The cross-talk between CD40 and toll-like receptor (TLR4)
signaling first mediates IL-1 receptor-associated kinase 1 (IRAK1) nuclear
translocation and its binding to the IL-10 gene promoter in macrophages, without 
interfering with the NFκB pathway. IL-10 is then detected by macrophages in an
autocrine fashion to destabilize Tnfa mRNA. To induce IRAK1-mediated IL-10
expression, signals from both CD40 and TLR4 are essential. CD40 signaling induces
IRAK1 sumoylation in the presence of TNF receptor-associated factor 2 (TRAF2) and
intracellular isoform of osteopontin (iOPN) whereas TLR4 signaling provides IFN
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) as a chaperone for sumoylated IRAK1 nuclear
translocation. Interaction of T cells with macrophages was observed in the spleen
in vivo after endotoxemia induction with LPS injection. Our study demonstrates a 
mechanistic basis for the immunosuppressive role of macrophage CD40 in LPS
endotoxemia.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321427111 
PMCID: PMC3986140
PMID: 24706909  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Lupus. 2014 Aug;23(9):876-80. doi: 10.1177/0961203314530019. Epub 2014 Apr 3.

Genetic variation and coronary atherosclerosis in patients with systemic lupus
erythematosus.

Chung CP(1), Solus JF(2), Oeser A(2), Li C(3), Raggi P(4), Smith JR(2), Stein
CM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA
c.chung@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)Departments of Medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

Coronary artery disease is the major cause of mortality in patients with systemic
lupus erythematosus (SLE). Increased cardiovascular risk in SLE is not explained 
by traditional risk factors. We examined the hypothesis that genetic variation
contributes to the presence of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with SLE. The
genotypes of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in 152 candidate genes linked 
with autoimmune or cardiovascular risk were determined in 125 patients with SLE. 
Coronary artery calcium (CAC), a measure of coronary atherosclerosis, was
detected in 32 patients (26%) by electron-beam computed tomography. Polymorphism 
in 20 of the candidate genes (ADAM33, ADIPOQ, CCL5, CCR7, CDKN2B, CSF1, IL4,
IL12A, IL23R, INS, IRF5, MIF, MS4A1, PTGS1, PTPN22, RETN, SELE, TNFSF4,
TNFRSF11B, and VCAM1) were nominally associated with the presence of CAC
(p-values = 0.001-0.047 after adjustment for age, sex and race). Some of these
are known susceptibility genes for SLE and others have been implicated in
cardiovascular disease in other populations. No association withstood false
discovery rate adjustment. Replication studies in additional cohorts of patients 
with SLE may be informative.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions:
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203314530019 
PMCID: PMC4185017
PMID: 24699314  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Ann Hum Biol. 2014 Nov-Dec;41(6):531-9. doi: 10.3109/03014460.2014.899623. Epub
2014 Apr 3.

Association of interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) markers with an increased
risk of lupus and overlapping autoimmunity in a Kuwaiti population.

AlFadhli S(1), Jahabani I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, 
Kuwait University , Kuwait.

BACKGROUND: Variations in IRF5 have been associated with an increased risk of
developing lupus (SLE).
AIM: To explore the association of IRF5 markers (rs2004640, rs10954213) with
susceptibility to SLE and to the development of more than one autoimmune disease 
(OP) and to analyse the influence of rs2004640 on IRF5 isoform expression.
METHODS: A total of 300 age/gender/ethnicity-matched Kuwaitis were screened using
the TaqMan®SNP Genotyping Assay. Data analysis was conducted in three groups:
patients with high/low anti-dsDNA antibody titre, lupus nephritis/non-nephritis
and disease onset age ≤28 years/>28 years. cDNA samples with defined rs2004640
genotypes were amplified using specific primers and transcripts associated with
each of the exon1 variants were detected on polyacrylamide-gel.
RESULTS: A significant association was observed between the IRF5 markers
(rs2004640, rs10954213) and susceptibility to SLE (p < 0.0001) and OP (p <
0.025). Stratified analysis showed a significant association of the rs2004640
T-allele with a high titre of anti-dsDNA antibody (p = 0.0035, OR = 1.92) and a
low disease onset age ≤28 years (p = 0.0026, OR = 1.94). Additionally, the
influential role of the rs2004640 T allele on IRF5 expression was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to investigate the association of IRF5
markers with OP and the very first to explore the association of these markers
with SLE in Arabs. The novelty of this study is the association of the rs2004640 
T-allele with increased anti-dsDNA antibody production and SLE in a younger age
group.

DOI: 10.3109/03014460.2014.899623 
PMID: 24697591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Tissue Antigens. 2014 Jun;83(6):401-8. doi: 10.1111/tan.12349. Epub 2014 Apr 3.

Gene-gene interactions of IRF5, STAT4, IKZF1 and ETS1 in systemic lupus
erythematosus.

Dang J(1), Shan S, Li J, Zhao H, Xin Q, Liu Y, Bian X, Liu Q.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Experimental Teratology of the Ministry of Education and
Department of Medical Genetics, Shandong University School of Medicine, Jinan,
China; Department of Medical Genetics and Cell Biology, Ningxia Medical
University, Yinchuan, China.

Interferon (IFN) activation signaling and T helper 17 (Th17)-cell/B-cell
regulation play a critical role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus
erythematosus (SLE). Several studies have provided convincing evidence that
polymorphisms in IRF5, STAT4, IKZF1 and ETS1 from these pathways may be involved 
in SLE by affecting gene expression or epistasis. We analyzed the genetic
interaction in known SLE susceptibility loci from the four genes in northern Han 
Chinese. A total of 946 northern Han Chinese participated in this study (370
unrelated SLE patients and 576 healthy controls). Subjects underwent genotyping
for the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) rs2004640 in IRF5, rs7574865 in
STAT4, rs4917014 in IKZF1 and rs1128334 in ETS1 by use of a TaqMan SNP genotyping
assay and direct sequencing. Gene-gene interaction analysis involved direct
counting, multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR) and linear regression
analysis. SLE patients and controls differed in allele frequencies of rs7574865, 
rs1128334 (P < 0.001) and rs4917014 (P < 0.01). Direct counting revealed that the
frequency of risk homozygote combinations was higher for SLE patients than
controls (P < 0.01). Furthermore, 2-, 3- and 4-way gene-gene epistasis in SLE was
confirmed by parametric methods and MDR analysis. Gene expression analysis
partially supported the findings. Our study confirmed the association of the IFN 
pathway or Th17/B-cells and the pathogenesis of SLE, and gene-gene interaction in
this pathway may increase the risk of SLE.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tan.12349 
PMID: 24697319  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Curr Genomics. 2014 Feb;15(1):52-65. doi: 10.2174/138920291501140306113715.

Systemic Lupus Erythematosus: Old and New Susceptibility Genes versus Clinical
Manifestations.

J de AS(1), C A(2), P SG(2), S C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunopathology Keizo Asami (LIKA), Federal University of
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Immunopathology Keizo Asami (LIKA), Federal University of
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil ; Department of Genetics, Federal
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) is one of the most relevant world-wide
autoimmune disorders. The formation of autoantibodies and the deposition of
antibody-containing immune complexes in blood vessels throughout the body is the 
main pathogenic mechanism of SLE leading to heterogeneous clinical manifestations
and target tissue damage. The complexity of etiology and pathogenesis in SLE,
enclosing genetic and environmental factors, apparently is one of the greatest
challenges for both researchers and clinicians. Strong indications for a genetic 
background in SLE come from studies in families as well as in monozygotic and
dizygotic twins, discovering several SLE-associated loci and genes (e.g. IRF5,
PTPN22, CTLA4, STAT4 and BANK1). As SLE has a complex genetic background, none of
these genes is likely to be entirely responsible for triggering autoimmune
response in SLE even if they disclosure a potentially novel molecular mechanisms 
in the pathogenesis' disease. The clinical manifestations and disease severity
varies greatly among patients, thus several studies try to associate clinical
heterogeneity and prognosis with specific genetic polymorphisms in SLE associated
genes. The continue effort to describe new predisposing or modulating genes in
SLE is justified by the limited knowledge about the pathogenesis, assorted
clinical manifestation and the possible prevention strategies. In this review we 
describe newly discovered, as well as the most studied genes associated to SLE
susceptibility, and relate them to clinical manifestations of the disease.

DOI: 10.2174/138920291501140306113715 
PMCID: PMC3958959
PMID: 24653663 


141. Cancer Res. 2014 May 15;74(10):2698-709. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-13-2169. Epub
2014 Mar 17.

Cancer stem-like cells derived from chemoresistant tumors have a unique capacity 
to prime tumorigenic myeloid cells.

Yamashina T(1), Baghdadi M(1), Yoneda A(1), Kinoshita I(1), Suzu S(1),
Dosaka-Akita H(1), Jinushi M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Research Center for Infection-Associated Cancer,
Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido University; Department of Medical
Oncology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo; and Center
for AIDS research, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(2)Authors' Affiliations: Research Center for Infection-Associated Cancer,
Institute for Genetic Medicine, Hokkaido University; Department of Medical
Oncology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo; and Center
for AIDS research, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan
Jinushi@igm.hokudai.ac.jp.

Resistance to anticancer therapeutics greatly affects the phenotypic and
functional properties of tumor cells, but how chemoresistance contributes to the 
tumorigenic activities of cancer stem-like cells remains unclear. In this study, 
we found that a characteristic of cancer stem-like cells from chemoresistant
tumors (CSC-R) is the ability to produce a variety of proinflammatory cytokines
and to generate M2-like immunoregulatory myeloid cells from CD14(+) monocytes.
Furthermore, we identified the IFN-regulated transcription factor IRF5 as a
CSC-R-specific factor critical for promoting M-CSF production and generating
tumorigenic myeloid cells. Importantly, myeloid cells primed with IRF5(+) CSC-R
facilitate the tumorigenic and stem cell activities of bulk tumors. Importantly, 
the activation of IRF5/M-CSF pathways in tumor cells were correlated with the
number of tumor-associated CSF1 receptor(+) M2 macrophages in patients with
non-small lung cancer. Collectively, our findings show how chemoresistance
affects the properties of CSCs in their niche microenvironments.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-13-2169 
PMID: 24638980  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. PLoS Pathog. 2014 Feb 20;10(2):e1003951. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003951.
eCollection 2014 Feb.

Induction of type I interferon signaling determines the relative pathogenicity of
Staphylococcus aureus strains.

Parker D(1), Planet PJ(2), Soong G(1), Narechania A(3), Prince A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, New York, New York, United
States of America.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University, New York, New York, United
States of America ; Sackler Institute for Comparative Genomics, American Museum
of Natural History, New York, New York, United States of America.
(3)Sackler Institute for Comparative Genomics, American Museum of Natural
History, New York, New York, United States of America.

The tremendous success of S. aureus as a human pathogen has been explained
primarily by its array of virulence factors that enable the organism to evade
host immunity. Perhaps equally important, but less well understood, is the
importance of the intensity of the host response in determining the extent of
pathology induced by S. aureus infection, particularly in the pathogenesis of
pneumonia. We compared the pathogenesis of infection caused by two
phylogenetically and epidemiologically distinct strains of S. aureus whose
behavior in humans has been well characterized. Induction of the type I IFN
cascade by strain 502A, due to a NOD2-IRF5 pathway, was the major factor in
causing severe pneumonia and death in a murine model of pneumonia and was
associated with autolysis and release of peptidogylcan. In contrast to USA300,
502A was readily eliminated from epithelial surfaces in vitro. Nonetheless, 502A 
caused significantly increased tissue damage due to the organisms that were able 
to invade systemically and trigger type I IFN responses, and this was ameliorated
in Ifnar⁻/⁻ mice. The success of USA300 to cause invasive infection appears to
depend upon its resistance to eradication from epithelial surfaces, but not
production of specific toxins. Our studies illustrate the important and highly
variable role of type I IFN signaling within a species and suggest that targeted 
immunomodulation of specific innate immune signaling cascades may be useful to
prevent the excessive morbidity associated with S. aureus pneumonia.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1003951 
PMCID: PMC3930619
PMID: 24586160  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2014 Feb;75(1):19-24. doi: 10.1016/j.ando.2013.12.002.
Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Lack of association of IRF5 gene polymorphisms with autoimmune thyroid disease: a
case-control study. IRF5 gene and AITD.

Muhali FS(1), Zhou-jiao Z(1), Wang Y(1), Wang Q(1), Shi XH(2), Jiang WJ(2), Xiao 
L(2), Li DF(2), He ST(2), Xu J(2), Zhang JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Medical School
of Xi'an Jiaotong University, No. 277 West Yanta Road, 710061 Xi'an, China;
Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508
Longhang Road, 201508 Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508
Longhang Road, 201508 Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508
Longhang Road, 201508 Shanghai, China. Electronic address:
zhangjinan@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Several studies support a link between autoimmunity and interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) gene polymorphisms. We have taken the opportunity to
examine association of the autoimmune disease risk gene, the interferon
regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) to survey its susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid
disease. "A total of 667 patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases and 301
healthy controls were genotyped for rs10954213, rs2004640, rs3807306, rs752637
and rs7808907 of IRF5 gene polymorphisms". We further investigated the
association between BANK1 gene and IRF5 gene in AITD patients.
RESULTS: For IRF5 gene, both in allele and genotype frequencies from both GD and 
HT patients were not significantly different from those of controls. Association 
between rs7808907C allele and Graves' disease showed trend towards significance
(P=0.067). Haplotype results in IRF5 represented in the same block, without
significant association. No significant association was found between all IRF5
SNPs and ophthalmopathy in Graves' patients. Additive interaction analysis
revealed no interactions between IRF5 and BANK1 gene in AITD patients.
CONCLUSION: Our data fail to reveal IRF5 as a susceptibility gene to AITD and do 
not support additive effect of IRF5 to BANK1 gene.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ando.2013.12.002 
PMID: 24582590  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Fish Shellfish Immunol. 2014 Apr;37(2):256-67. doi: 10.1016/j.fsi.2014.02.002.
Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Genomic characterization of interferon regulatory factor 5 from rock bream
(Oplegnathus fasciatus) and its role in antiviral defense.

Wickramaarachchi WD(1), Wan Q(1), Lim BS(2), Jung HB(2), De Zoysa M(3), Park
MA(4), Lee J(5), Whang I(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Marine Life Sciences, School of Marine Biomedical Sciences, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province 690-756, Republic of Korea.
(2)Marine and Environmental Institute, Jeju National University, Jeju Special
Self-Governing Province 690-814, Republic of Korea.
(3)College of Veterinary Medicine, Chungnam National University, Yuseong-gu,
Daejeon 305-764, Republic of Korea.
(4)Pathology Division, National Fisheries and Research & Developmental Institute,
Busan 619-705, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Marine Life Sciences, School of Marine Biomedical Sciences, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province 690-756, Republic of Korea;
Marine and Environmental Institute, Jeju National University, Jeju Special
Self-Governing Province 690-814, Republic of Korea. Electronic address:
jehee@jejunu.ac.kr.
(6)Department of Marine Life Sciences, School of Marine Biomedical Sciences, Jeju
National University, Jeju Self-Governing Province 690-756, Republic of Korea.
Electronic address: ilsonwhang@hanmail.net.

The interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) is a key mediator of the Toll-like
receptor (TLR)7 and TLR8 signaling pathways. In this study, we describe the
identification of IRF5 (Rb-IRF5) from rock bream fish (Oplegnathus fasciatus) and
its characteristics features at the genomic and expression levels. The
full-length Rb-IRF5 sequence was identified from a cDNA library and its genomic
sequence was obtained by screening and sequencing of a bacterial artificial
chromosome (BAC) genomic DNA library of rock bream. The genomic sequence is
comprised of 8 exons interrupted by 7 introns. The complete coding sequence of
Rb-IRF5 is 1497 bp in length and encodes for 498 amino acids. The putative
Rb-IRF5 protein consists of 3 important conserved domains: a DNA-binding domain
(DBD) at the N-terminus, an IRF-associated domain (IAD), and a virus-activated
domain (VAD) at the C-terminus. Based on pairwise sequence analysis, the highest 
sequence similarity/identity for Rb-IRF5 was observed with the IRF5 gene from
turbot fish (>87%) and Japanese flounder (83%). Several important putative
transcription factor-binding sites shared by the IRF gene family, including the
NF-κB, Ap-1, IRF-1, and ICSBP/ISRE sites, were found in the 5' flanking region of
Rb-IRF5. The predicted tertiary structure of the dimerized IAD and VAD of the
Rb-IRF5 protein resembled that of its orthologs from humans. In healthy rock
bream, the highest constitutive expression of Rb-IRF5 was detected in the liver. 
After iridovirus and polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) challenge,
Rb-IRF5 expression was significantly induced in the head kidney. Furthermore,
rock bream recombinant type I interferon (Rb-IFN1) was also found to be an
efficient inducer of Rb-IRF5 in a head kidney primary cell culture model. Upon
IRF5 transfection, rock bream Mx (Rb-Mx), interferon I (Rb-IFN1) and
tumor-necrosis factor α (Rb-TNFα) genes get significantly upregulated in rock
bream heart cells. The findings of the present study explain the involvement of
Rb-IRF5 in the induction of interferons and pro-inflammatory cytokines and
thereby provide a model for how IRF5 modulates immune responses against viral
infections in rock bream.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsi.2014.02.002 
PMID: 24560681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Biol Chem. 2014 Mar 28;289(13):9146-57. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.534321. Epub 2014
Feb 14.

HIV-2 Vpx protein interacts with interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) and
inhibits its function.

Cheng X(1), Ratner L.

Author information: 
(1)From the Division of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University
School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110.

Interferon regulatory factor (IRF) family members have been implicated as
critical transcription factors that function in immune responses, hematopoietic
differentiation, and cell growth regulation. Activation of IRF5 results in the
production of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFα, IL6, and IL12, as well as 
type I interferons. In this study, we demonstrate that HIV-2 Vpx interacts with
IRF5, and Vpx inhibits IRF5-mediated transactivation. Expression of Vpx in THP-1 
cells reduced mRNA levels and protein production of Toll-like receptor-dependent 
IL6, IL12p40, and TNFα induced by lipopolysaccharide, R848, and ODN2216.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays show that Vpx expression results in
decreased promoter binding activity of IRF5. This study provides new insights
into mechanisms employed by HIV-2 to counteract innate immune defenses against
viral infection.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.534321 
PMCID: PMC3979364
PMID: 24532789  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Carcinogenesis. 2014 May;35(5):1132-43. doi: 10.1093/carcin/bgu013. Epub 2014 Jan
20.

IRF5 is a target of BCR-ABL kinase activity and reduces CML cell proliferation.

Massimino M(1), Consoli ML, Mesuraca M, Stagno F, Tirrò E, Stella S, Pennisi MS, 
Romano C, Buffa P, Bond HM, Morrone G, Sciacca L, Di Raimondo F, Manzella L,
Vigneri P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Bio-Medicine, University of Catania,
85-95124 Catania, Italy.

Interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) modulates the expression of genes
controlling cell growth and apoptosis. Previous findings have suggested a lack of
IRF5 transcripts in both acute and chronic leukemias. However, to date, IRF5
expression and function have not been investigated in chronic myeloid leukemia
(CML). We report that IRF5 is expressed in CML cells, where it interacts with the
BCR-ABL kinase that modulates its expression and induces its tyrosine
phosphorylation. Tyrosine-phosphorylated IRF5 displayed reduced transcriptional
activity that was partially restored by imatinib mesylate (IM). Interestingly, a 
mutant devoid of a BCR-ABL consensus site (IRF5(Y104F)) still presented
significant tyrosine phosphorylation. This finding suggests that the oncoprotein 
phosphorylates additional tyrosine residues or induces downstream signaling
pathways leading to further IRF5 phosphorylation. We also found that ectopic
expression of IRF5 decreases the proliferation of CML cell lines by slowing their
S-G2 transition, increasing the inhibition of BCR-ABL signaling and enhancing the
lethality effect observed after treatment with IM, α-2-interferon and a
DNA-damaging agent. Furthermore, IRF5 overexpression successfully reduced the
clonogenic ability of CML CD34-positive progenitors before and after exposure to 
the above-indicated cytotoxic stimuli. Our data identify IRF5 as a downstream
target of the BCR-ABL kinase, suggesting that its biological inactivation
contributes to leukemic transformation.

DOI: 10.1093/carcin/bgu013 
PMID: 24445143  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014 Apr 22;63(15):1556-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2013.11.023.
Epub 2013 Dec 18.

In vivo silencing of the transcription factor IRF5 reprograms the macrophage
phenotype and improves infarct healing.

Courties G(1), Heidt T(1), Sebas M(1), Iwamoto Y(1), Jeon D(1), Truelove J(1),
Tricot B(1), Wojtkiewicz G(1), Dutta P(1), Sager HB(1), Borodovsky A(2),
Novobrantseva T(2), Klebanov B(2), Fitzgerald K(2), Anderson DG(3), Libby P(4),
Swirski FK(1), Weissleder R(5), Nahrendorf M(6).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(3)David H. Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, Department of
Chemical Engineering, Division of Health Science Technology, and Institute for
Medical Engineering and Science, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(4)Cardiovascular Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: mnahrendorf@mgh.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014 Apr 22;63(15):1567-8.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to test whether silencing of the
transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (IRF5) in cardiac macrophages
improves infarct healing and attenuates post-myocardial infarction (MI)
remodeling.
BACKGROUND: In healing wounds, the M1 toward M2 macrophage phenotype transition
supports resolution of inflammation and tissue repair. Persistence of
inflammatory M1 macrophages may derail healing and compromise organ functions.
The transcription factor IRF5 up-regulates genes associated with M1 macrophages.
METHODS: Here we used nanoparticle-delivered small interfering ribonucleic acid
(siRNA) to silence IRF5 in macrophages residing in MIs and in surgically-induced 
skin wounds in mice.
RESULTS: Infarct macrophages expressed high levels of IRF5 during the early
inflammatory wound-healing stages (day 4 after coronary ligation), whereas
expression of the transcription factor decreased during the resolution of
inflammation (day 8). Following in vitro screening, we identified an siRNA
sequence that, when delivered by nanoparticles to wound macrophages, efficiently 
suppressed expression of IRF5 in vivo. Reduction of IRF5 expression, a factor
that regulates macrophage polarization, reduced expression of inflammatory M1
macrophage markers, supported resolution of inflammation, accelerated cutaneous
and infarct healing, and attenuated development of post-MI heart failure after
coronary ligation as measured by protease targeted fluorescence molecular
tomography-computed tomography imaging and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (p 
< 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This work identified a new therapeutic avenue to augment resolution 
of inflammation in healing infarcts by macrophage phenotype manipulation. This
therapeutic concept may be used to attenuate post-MI remodeling and heart
failure.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by Elsevier
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2013.11.023 
PMCID: PMC3992176
PMID: 24361318  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 2014 May;34(5):354-65. doi: 10.1089/jir.2012.0105.
Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Molecular effects of autoimmune-risk promoter polymorphisms on expression, exon
choice, and translational efficiency of interferon regulatory factor 5.

Clark DN(1), Lambert JP, Till RE, Argueta LB, Greenhalgh KE, Henrie B, Bills T,
Hawkley TF, Roznik MG, Sloan JM, Mayhew V, Woodland L, Nelson EP, Tsai MH, Poole 
BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, Brigham Young University ,
Provo, Utah.

The rs2004640 single nucleotide polymorphism and the CGGGG copy-number variant
(rs77571059) are promoter polymorphisms within interferon regulatory factor 5
(IRF5). They have been implicated as susceptibility factors for several
autoimmune diseases. IRF5 uses alternative promoter splicing, where any of 4
first exons begin the mRNA. The CGGGG indel is in exon 1A's promoter; the
rs2004640 allele creates a splicing recognition site, enabling usage of exon 1B. 
This study aimed at characterizing alterations in IRF5 mRNA due to these
polymorphisms. Cells with risk polymorphisms exhibited ~2-fold higher levels of
IRF5 mRNA and protein, but demonstrated no change in mRNA stability. Quantitative
PCR demonstrated decreased usage of exons 1C and 1D in cell lines with the risk
polymorphisms. RNA folding analysis revealed a hairpin in exon 1B; mutational
analysis showed that the hairpin shape decreased translation 5-fold. Although
translation of mRNA that uses exon 1B is low due to a hairpin, increased IRF5
mRNA levels in individuals with the rs2004640 risk allele lead to higher overall 
protein expression. In addition, several new splice variants of IRF5 were
sequenced. IRF5's promoter polymorphisms alter first exon usage and increase
transcription levels. High levels of IRF5 may bias the immune system toward
autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.1089/jir.2012.0105 
PMID: 24350899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Cell Biochem. 2014 Apr;115(4):641-50. doi: 10.1002/jcb.24699.

BRCA1-mediated inflammation and growth activated & inhibited transition
mechanisms between no-tumor hepatitis/cirrhotic tissues and HCC.

Diao H(1), Wang L, Huang J, Jiang M, Zhou H, Li X, Chen Q, Jiang Z, Feng H.

Author information: 
(1)Bioinformatics Center, School of Electronic Engineering, Beijing University of
Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, 100876, China; State key Laboratory of
Drug Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Shanghai, 201203, China.

To understand breast cancer 1 early onset (BRCA1)-mediated inflammation and
growth activated and inhibited transition mechanisms between no-tumor
hepatitis/cirrhotic tissues (HBV or HCV infection) and human hepatocellular
carcinoma (HCC), BRCA1-activated different complete (all no positive correlation,
Pearson correlation coefficient <0.25) and uncomplete (partly no positive
correlation except BRCA1, Pearson <0.25) networks were identified in higher HCC
compared with lower no-tumor hepatitis/cirrhotic tissues (HBV or HCV infection)
from the corresponding BRCA1-stimulated (Pearson ≥0.25) or inhibited (Pearson
≤-0.25) overlapping molecules of Pearson and GRNInfer, respectively. This result 
was verified by the corresponding scatter matrix. As visualized by GO, KEGG,
GenMAPP, BioCarta, and disease database integration, we proposed mainly that
BRCA1-stimulated different complete network was involved in BRCA1 activation with
integral to membrane killer cell lectin-like receptor C to nucleus interferon
regulatory factor 5-induced inflammation, whereas the corresponding inhibited
network participated in BRCA1 repression with matrix roundabout axon guidance
receptor homolog 1 to plasma membrane versican-induced growth in lower no-tumor
hepatitis/cirrhotic tissues (HBV or HCV infection). However, BRCA1-stimulated
network contained BRCA1 activation with endothelium-specific to lysosomal
transmembrane and carbamoyl synthetase to tastin, histone cluster and
cyclin-induced growth, whereas the corresponding inhibited different complete
network included BRCA1 repression with ovalbumin, thyroid stimulating hormone
beta and Hu antigen C to cytochrome P450 to transducin-induced inflammation in
higher HCC. Our BRCA1 different networks were verified by BRCA1-activated or
-inhibited complete and uncomplete networks within and between no-tumor
hepatitis/cirrhotic tissues (HBV or HCV infection) or (and) HCC.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.24699 
PMID: 24151232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Oncogene. 2014 Jun 19;33(25):3288-97. doi: 10.1038/onc.2013.295. Epub 2013 Aug 5.

Deletion of Irf5 protects hematopoietic stem cells from DNA damage-induced
apoptosis and suppresses γ-irradiation-induced thymic lymphomagenesis.

Bi X(1), Feng D(1), Korczeniewska J(1), Alper N(2), Hu G(2), Barnes BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, New Jersey Medical
School, UMDNJ, Newark, NJ, USA [2] New Jersey Medical School-University Hospital 
Cancer Center, UMDNJ, Newark, NJ, USA.
(2)New Jersey Medical School-University Hospital Cancer Center, UMDNJ, Newark,
NJ, USA.

Repeated low-dose γ-irradiation (IR) induces thymic lymphoma in mice because of
oncogenic mutations propagating from a primitive hematopoietic stem/progenitor
cell (HSC) in the bone marrow. It is well known that IR-induced thymic
lymphomagenesis is markedly enhanced by p53 deficiency, yet data also indicate
that p53-dependent apoptosis can actively drive tumor formation in this model.
The latter was recently expounded on by findings from Puma-deficient mice,
indicating that loss of this proapoptotic p53 target gene results in protection
from IR-induced lymphomagenesis rather than enhanced susceptibility to. Similar
to Puma, the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 5 (Irf5) has been 
reported as a p53 target gene and is required for DNA damage-induced apoptosis.
To date, no studies have been performed to elucidate the in vivo role of IRF5 in 
tumorigenesis. Given its essential role in DNA damage-induced apoptosis, we
explored the tumor suppressor function of IRF5 in IR-induced thymic
lymphomagenesis. Somewhat surprisingly, we found that thymic lymphoma development
was significantly suppressed in Irf5(-/-) mice as compared with wild-type
littermates. Suppression was due, in part, to reduced thymocyte and HSC
apoptosis, resulting in reduced compensatory proliferation, and reduced
replication stress-associated DNA damage. The observed effects were independent
of p53 or Puma as these proteins were upregulated in Irf5(-/-) mice in response
to IR. This study demonstrates an important new role for IRF5 in maintaining HSC 
homeostasis after IR and supports the non-redundant functions of IRF5, p53 and
PUMA in DNA damage-induced lymphomagenesis. We propose that IRF5 may be an
attractive target for developing therapeutic agents to ameliorate
radiation-induced bone marrow injury.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2013.295 
PMID: 23912454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Jun;73(6):1240-5. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-202675. Epub 
2013 Jun 5.

Ethnic specificity of lupus-associated loci identified in a genome-wide
association study in Korean women.

Lee HS(1), Kim T, Bang SY, Na YJ, Kim I, Kim K, Kim JH, Chung YJ, Shin HD, Kang
YM, Shim SC, Suh CH, Park YB, Kim JS, Kang C, Bae SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Hanyang University Hospital for Rheumatic
Diseases, , Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To identify novel genetic candidates for systemic lupus erythematosus
(SLE) in the Korean population, and to validate the risk loci for SLE identified 
in previous genome-wide association studies (GWAS).
METHODS: We performed a GWAS in 400 Korean female SLE patients and 445 controls. 
Selected single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) were then replicated in an
independent cohort of 385 SLE patients and 583 controls (replication cohort 1),
and in a further 811 SLE patients and 1502 controls (replication cohort 2).
RESULTS: In the GWAS phase, rs9275428 located near HLA-DQB1 showed the strongest 
association with SLE (OR 0.50, false discovery rate (FDR) p=3.07×10(-6)).
Although no loci reached genome-wide significance outside major
histocompatibility complex (MHC), C8orf13-BLK, STAT4, CSMD1, DIAPH3, GLDC and
TNFSF4 showed FDR p < 0.05. Our results suggest that STAT4, BLK, IRF5,
PTTG1-miR-146a, UBE2L3 and TNFAIP3 are shared susceptibility loci among
Caucasians and Asians, while ETS1, IKZF1, SLC15A4 are likely to be Asian-specific
loci. In a combined analysis of 1596 SLE patients and 2540 controls for selected 
22 candidate SNP, STAT4 and BLK as positive controls showed a strong association 
with SLE (FDR p=9.85×10(-13) and 2.28×10(-8), respectively). Of these, 16
candidates (PEX5L, TRAJ50, MYO18B, SOS1, ARHGAP26, SMURF1, CADPS, HAND1, FAM78B, 
DIAPH3, TBL1XR1, CSMD1, ZBTB20, C3orf21, HIPK1 and AP001042.1) showed only
nominal significance (7.05×10(-4)≤FDR p≤4.38×10(-2)).
CONCLUSIONS: There are similarities and differences in genetic susceptibility for
SLE between Caucasian and Asian ethnic groups. Although 16 putative novel loci
for SLE have been suggested in the Korean population, further research on a
larger sample is required to discriminate truth from error.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-202675 
PMID: 23740238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

