
1. J Vasc Res. 2014;51(6):429-38. doi: 10.1159/000369930. Epub 2015 Jan 22.

Nox4 is a major source of superoxide production in human brain pericytes.

Kuroda J(1), Ago T, Nishimura A, Nakamura K, Matsuo R, Wakisaka Y, Kamouchi M,
Kitazono T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Pericytes are multifunctional cells surrounding capillaries and
postcapillary venules. In brain microvasculature, pericytes play a pivotal role
under physiological and pathological conditions by producing reactive oxygen
species (ROS). The aims of this study were to elucidate the source of ROS and its
regulation in human brain pericytes.
METHODS: The expression of Nox enzymes in the cells was evaluated using RT-PCR
and western blot. Superoxide production was determined by superoxide
dismutase-inhibitable chemiluminescence. Silencing of Nox4 was performed using
RNAi, and cell proliferation was evaluated using the
3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetr
azolium (MTS) assay.
RESULTS: Nox4 was predominant among the Nox family in human brain pericytes.
Membrane fractions of cells produced superoxide in the presence of NAD(P)H.
Superoxide production was almost abolished with diphenileneiodonium, a Nox
inhibitor; however, inhibitors of other possible superoxide-producing enzymes had
no effect on NAD(P)H-dependent superoxide production. Pericytes expressed
angiotensin II (Ang II) receptors, and Ang II upregulated Nox4 expression.
Hypoxic conditions also increased the Nox4 expression. Silencing of Nox4
significantly reduced ROS production and attenuated cell proliferation.
CONCLUSION: Our study showed that Nox4 is a major superoxide-producing enzyme and
that its expression is regulated by Ang II and hypoxic stress in human brain
pericytes. In addition, Nox4 may promote cell growth.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000369930 
PMID: 25612841  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 19;9(11):e113480. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113480.
eCollection 2014.

The pro-resolving lipid mediator maresin 1 (MaR1) attenuates inflammatory
signaling pathways in vascular smooth muscle and endothelial cells.

Chatterjee A(1), Sharma A(1), Chen M(1), Toy R(1), Mottola G(1), Conte MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute (CVRI) and Department of Surgery, University
of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California.

OBJECTIVE: Inflammation and its resolution are central to vascular injury and
repair. Maresins comprise a new family of bioactive lipid mediators synthesized
from docosahexaenoic acid, an ω-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid. They have been
found to exert anti-inflammatory and pro-resolving responses in macrophages,
neutrophils and bronchial epithelial cells and impart beneficial actions in
murine models of peritonitis and colitis. We investigated the impact of maresin-1
(MaR1) on tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) induced inflammatory responses in
human vascular endothelial (EC) and smooth muscle cells (VSMC).
METHODS: Primary cultures of human saphenous vein EC and VSMC were employed. We
tested the naturally occurring MaR1 as modulator of TNF-α effects, with
examination of monocyte adhesion, oxidant stress, and intracellular inflammatory 
signaling pathways.
RESULTS: MaR1 attenuated TNF-α induced monocyte adhesion and reactive oxygen
species (ROS) generation in both EC and VSMC, associated with down-regulated
expression (cell surface) of the adhesion molecule E-selectin (in EC) and
NADPH-oxidases (NOX4, NOX1, NOX2). MaR1 attenuated TNF-α induced release of
pro-inflammatory mediators by EC and VSMC. MaR1 caused an attenuation of TNF-α
induced NF-κB activation in both cell types associated with inhibition of I-κ
Kinase (IKK) phosphorylation, IκB-α degradation and nuclear translocation of the 
NF- κB p65 subunit. MaR1 also caused a time-dependent increase in intracellular
cyclic AMP (cAMP) in both naive and TNF-α stimulated VSMC and EC.
CONCLUSIONS: MaR1 has broad anti-inflammatory actions on EC and VSMC, which may
be partly mediated through up-regulation of cAMP and down-regulation of the
transcription factor NF-κB. The results suggest that the pro-resolving lipid
mediator MaR1 exerts homeostatic actions on vascular cells that counteract
pro-inflammatory signals. These findings may have direct relevance for acute and 
chronic states of vascular inflammation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113480 
PMCID: PMC4237455
PMID: 25409514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Vasc Res. 2014;51(5):327-37. doi: 10.1159/000365926. Epub 2014 Nov 7.

Antioxidant treatment prevents serum deprivation- and TNF-α-induced endothelial
dysfunction through the inhibition of NADPH oxidase 4 and the restoration of
β-oxidation.

Scioli MG(1), Bielli A, Agostinelli S, Tarquini C, Arcuri G, Ferlosio A, Costanza
G, Doldo E, Orlandi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, Institute of Anatomic Pathology,
University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.

AIMS: Oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in the impaired endothelial function 
occurring in vascular diseases. Antioxidant strategies induce a clinical
advantage in patients with endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis and
protect from oxidative damage, but the underlying molecular mechanisms have been 
poorly evaluated. The aim of this study was to analyze the effects and mechanisms
of action of antioxidant regimens on endothelial function.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Antioxidant efficacy of N-acetylcysteine, ascorbic acid and 
propionyl-L-carnitine was evaluated in serum-deprived and TNF-α-stimulated human 
umbilical vein endothelial cells in vitro. Cell adhesion molecule (CAM)
expression was evaluated by blot and real-time PCR, and inflammatory cytokine
secretion was evaluated by ELISA; leukocyte adhesion and reactive oxygen species 
assays and NADPH oxidase 4 isoform (Nox4) expression analyses by blots were also 
performed. Antioxidant pretreatment restored serum-deprived and TNF-α-induced
impaired mitochondrial β-oxidation by reducing flavin adenine dinucleotide level 
and counteracting increased CAM and Nox4 expression, leukocyte adhesion and
inflammatory cytokine secretion. Specific inhibition by plumbagin and siNox4
prevented TNF-α- and serum deprivation-induced detrimental effects, confirming
that endothelial oxidative stress and inflammation were Nox4 dependent.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings documented Nox4 as a main actor in oxidative
stress-induced endothelial dysfunction and further clarify the molecular basis of
antioxidant treatment efficacy.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000365926 
PMID: 25401479  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2014 Sep 15;7(10):6514-23. eCollection 2014.

CXCR6 deficiency attenuates pressure overload-induced monocytes migration and
cardiac fibrosis through downregulating TNF-α-dependent MMP9 pathway.

Wang JH(1), Su F(1), Wang S(2), Lu XC(3), Zhang SH(4), Chen D(4), Chen NN(4),
Zhong JQ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and
Function Research, Chinese Ministry of Education and Chinese Ministry of Health, 
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University 250012, China ; Department of Cardiology,
Yangpu Hospital Affiliated to Tongji University Shanghai 200090, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases,
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Gongli Hospital Shanghai 200135, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Yangpu Hospital Affiliated to Tongji University
Shanghai 200090, China.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and
Function Research, Chinese Ministry of Education and Chinese Ministry of Health, 
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University 250012, China.

An immerging role of TNF-α in collagen synthesis and cardiac fibrosis implies the
significance of TNF-α production in the development of myocardial remodeling. Our
previous study showed a reduction of TNF-α and attenuated cardiac remodeling in
CXCR6 knockout (KO) mice after ischemia/reperfusion injury. However, the
potential mechanism of TNF-α-mediated cardiac fibrosis with pressure overload has
not been well elucidated. In the present study, we aim to investigate the role of
CXCR6 in TNF-α release and myocardial remodeling in response to pressure
overload. Pressure overload was performed by constriction of transverse aorta
(TAC) surgery on CXCR6 KO mice and C57 wild-type (WT) counterparts. At 6 weeks
after TAC, cardiac remodeling was assessed by echocardiography, cardiac TNF-α
release and its type I receptor (TNFRI), were detected by ELISA and western blot,
collagen genes Col1a1 (type I) and Col3a1 (type III) were examined by real-time
PCR. Compared with CXCR6 WT mice, CXCR6 KO mice exhibited less cardiac
dysfunction, reduced expression of TNFRI, Col1a1 and Col3a. In vitro, we
confirmed that CXCR6 deficiency led to reduced homing and infiltration of
CD11b(+) monocytes, which contributed to attenuated TNF-α release in myocardium. 
Furthermore, TNFRI antagonist pretreatment blocked AT1 receptor signaling and
NOX4 expression, reduced collagen synthesis, and blunted the activity of MMP9 in 
CXCR6 WT mice after TAC, but these were not observed in CXCR6 KO mice. In the
present work, we propose a mechanism that CXCR6 is essential for pressure
overload-mediated myocardial recruitment of monocytes, which contributes to
cardiac fibrosis through TNF-α-dependent MMP9 activation and collagen synthesis.


PMCID: PMC4230124
PMID: 25400729  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2014;15(12):1173-82.

Naringin inhibits TNF-α induced oxidative stress and inflammatory response in
HUVECs via Nox4/NF-κ B and PI3K/Akt pathways.

Li W, Wang C, Peng J, Liang J, Jin Y, Liu Q, Meng Q, Liu K, Sun H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Dalian Medical
University, 9 West Section, Lvshun South Road, Lvshunkou District, Dalian 116044,
China. sunhuijun@dlmedu.edu.cn.

In the development of atherosclerosis, naringin has exhibited potential
protective effects. However, the specific mechanisms are not clearly understood. 
The aim of this trial was to determine the anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory
effects of naringin and uncover the mechanisms in Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha
(TNF-α) induced Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells (HUVECs). Reactive Oxygen 
Species (ROS) were measured by flow cytometry assay. The levels of NADPH oxidase 
4 (Nox4), p22(phox), intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and vascular cell
adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) over-expressions were measured by qRT-PCR and
Western blotting analyses. Activation of Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt
(PI3K/Akt) and Nuclear Factor-κB (NF-κB) was evaluated by Western blotting.
Naringin inhibited ROS production as well as over-expression levels of Nox4,
p22(phox) induced by TNF-α. Naringin inhibited TNF-α induced mRNA and protein
over-expressions of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1. Naringin also suppressed activation of
NF-κB and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways. These results indicated the preventive
effects of naringin on HUVECs injury caused by oxidative stress and inflammation 
response and the effects might be obtained via inhibition of Nox4 and NF-κB
pathways as well as activation of PI3K/Akt pathway. Naringin may be useful in
preventing endothelial dysfunction, therefore to ameliorate the development of
atherosclerosis.


PMID: 25391245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Mediators Inflamm. 2014;2014:986264. doi: 10.1155/2014/986264. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

LPS from P. gingivalis and hypoxia increases oxidative stress in periodontal
ligament fibroblasts and contributes to periodontitis.

Gölz L(1), Memmert S(1), Rath-Deschner B(1), Jäger A(1), Appel T(2), Baumgarten
G(3), Götz W(1), Frede S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Dental Clinic, University Hospital of Bonn,
Welschnonnenstraße. 17, 53111 Bonn, Germany.
(2)Center of Dento-Maxillo-Facial Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of
Bonn, Welschnonnenstraße 17, 53111 Bonn, Germany.
(3)Clinic of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine, University Hospital of
Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Straße 25, 53105 Bonn, Germany.

Oxidative stress is characterized by an accumulation of reactive oxygen species
(ROS) and plays a key role in the progression of inflammatory diseases. We
hypothesize that hypoxic and inflammatory events induce oxidative stress in the
periodontal ligament (PDL) by activating NOX4. Human primary PDL fibroblasts were
stimulated with lipopolysaccharide from Porphyromonas gingivalis (LPS-PG), a
periodontal pathogen bacterium under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. By
quantitative PCR, immunoblot, immunostaining, and a specific ROS assay we
determined the amount of NOX4, ROS, and several redox systems. Healthy and
inflamed periodontal tissues were collected to evaluate NOX4 and redox systems by
immunohistochemistry. We found significantly increased NOX4 levels after hypoxic 
or inflammatory stimulation in PDL cells (P < 0.001) which was even more
pronounced after combination of the stimuli. This was accompanied by a
significant upregulation of ROS and catalase (P < 0.001). However, prolonged
incubation with both stimuli induced a reduction of catalase indicating a
collapse of the protective machinery favoring ROS increase and the progression of
inflammatory oral diseases. Analysis of inflamed tissues confirmed our
hypothesis. In conclusion, we demonstrated that the interplay of NOX4 and redox
systems is crucial for ROS formation which plays a pivotal role during oral
diseases.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/986264 
PMCID: PMC4211166
PMID: 25374447  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Curr Drug Targets. 2014;15(13):1231-46.

Rac-1 as a new therapeutic target in cerebro- and cardio-vascular diseases.

Carrizzo A, Forte M, Lembo M, Formisano L, Puca AA, Vecchione C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Physiopathology Unit, IRCCS Neuromed, 86077 Pozzilli (IS), Italy.
cvecchione@unisa.it.

Growing evidence indicates that overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS)
plays a prominent role in the development of cardio- and cerebro-vascular
diseases. Among the mechanisms identified to produce oxidative stress in the
vascular wall, those mediated by membrane-bound NAD(P)H oxidases represent a
major one. NAD(P)H oxidases are a family of enzymes that generate ROS both in
phagocytic and non-phagocytic cell types. Vascular NAD(P)H oxidase contains the
membrane-bound subunits Nox1, Nox2 (gp91phox), Nox4 and p22phox, the catalytic
site of the oxidase, and the cytosolic components p47phox and p67phox. Rac1
(Ras-related C3 botulinum toxin substrate1) is a small GTPase essential for the
assembly and activation of NADPH oxidase. Several molecular and cellular studies 
have reported the involvement of Rac1 in different cardiovascular pathologies,
such as vascular smooth muscle proliferation, cardiomyocyte hypertrophy,
endothelial cell shape change, atherosclerosis and endothelial dysfunction in
hypertension. In addition, increased activation of NADPH oxidase by Rac1 has been
reported in animals and humans after myocardial infarction and heart failure. The
Rac1/NADPH pathway has also been found involved in different pathologies of the
cerebral district, such as ischemic stroke, cognitive impairment, subaracnoid
hemorrhage and neuronal oxidative damage typical of several neurodegenerative
disorders. In addition, thrombotic events are an important step in the onset of
cardio- and cerebrovascular diseases. Rac1 has been found involved also in
platelet activation, inducing actin polymerization and lamellipodia formation,
which are necessary steps for platelet aggregation. Taken together, the evidence 
candidates Rac1 as a new pharmacological target of cardiovascular and
cerebrovascular diseases. Although the involvement of Rac1 in the beneficial
pleiotropic effects of drugs such as statins is well known, and the onset of
numerous side effects has raised concern for the management of some patient
groups. Interestingly, a novel selective Rac1 inhibitor, NSC23766, has recently
been introduced; its use has been reported mainly in the oncology field. Future
studies are needed to extend its application to cardio- and cerebro-vascular
diseases, and translate its use to humans.


PMID: 25345393  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Mediators Inflamm. 2014;2014:379537. doi: 10.1155/2014/379537. Epub 2014 Sep 14.

MicroRNA-146a decreases high glucose/thrombin-induced endothelial inflammation by
inhibiting NAPDH oxidase 4 expression.

Wang HJ(1), Huang YL(2), Shih YY(3), Wu HY(4), Peng CT(5), Lo WY(6).

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, China Medical University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road,
Taichung 40402, Taiwan ; Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, China
Medical University Hospital, No. 2, Yuh-Der Road, Taichung 40447, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, College of Medical and Health Science, Asia
University, No. 500, Lioufeng Road, Wufeng, Taichung 41354, Taiwan ; Graduate
Institute of Basic Medical Science, China Medical University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih 
Road, Taichung 40402, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Life Science, National Chung Hsing University, No. 250,
Kuo-Kuang Road, Taichung 40227, Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Integration of Chinese and Western Medicine, China Medical
University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road, Taichung 40402, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital, China Medical University
Hospital, No. 2, Yuh-Der Road, Taichung 40447, Taiwan ; Department of
Biotechnology, Asia University, No. 500, Lioufeng Road, Wufeng, Taichung 41354,
Taiwan.
(6)Department of Life Science, National Chung Hsing University, No. 250,
Kuo-Kuang Road, Taichung 40227, Taiwan ; Graduate Integration of Chinese and
Western Medicine, China Medical University, No. 91, Hsueh-Shih Road, Taichung
40402, Taiwan.

Diabetes is associated with hyperglycemia and increased thrombin production.
However, it is unknown whether a combination of high glucose and thrombin can
modulate the expression of NAPDH oxidase (Nox) subtypes in human aortic
endothelial cells (HAECs). Moreover, we investigated the role of a
diabetes-associated microRNA (miR-146a) in a diabetic atherothrombosis model. We 
showed that high glucose (HG) exerted a synergistic effect with thrombin to
induce a 10.69-fold increase in Nox4 mRNA level in HAECs. Increased Nox4 mRNA
expression was associated with increased Nox4 protein expression and ROS
production. Inflammatory cytokine kit identified that the treatment increased
IL-8 and IL-6 levels. Moreover, HG/thrombin treatment caused an 11.43-fold
increase of THP-1 adhesion to HAECs. In silico analysis identified the homology
between miR-146a and the 3'-untranslated region of the Nox4 mRNA, and a
luciferase reporter assay confirmed that the miR-146a mimic bound to this Nox4
regulatory region. Additionally, miR-146a expression was decreased to 58% of that
in the control, indicating impaired feedback restraint of HG/thrombin-induced
endothelial inflammation. In contrast, miR-146a mimic transfection attenuated
HG/thrombin-induced upregulation of Nox4 expression, ROS generation, and
inflammatory phenotypes. In conclusion, miR-146a is involved in the regulation of
endothelial inflammation via modulation of Nox4 expression in a diabetic
atherothrombosis model.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/379537 
PMCID: PMC4179945
PMID: 25298619  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 8;9(10):e108859. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108859.
eCollection 2014.

SERPINA3K plays antioxidant roles in cultured pterygial epithelial cells through 
regulating ROS system.

Zhu C(1), Pan F(1), Ge L(1), Zhou J(1), Chen L(1), Zhou T(1), Zong R(1), Xiao
X(1), Dong N(2), Yang M(3), Ma JX(4), Liu Z(5), Zhou Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Eye Institute of Xiamen University, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(2)Affiliated Xiamen Eye Center of Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian, China.
(3)Xiamen Kehong Eye Hospital, Xiamen, Fujian, PR China.
(4)Department of Physiology, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center,
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United States of America.
(5)Eye Institute of Xiamen University, Fujian Provincial Key Laboratory of
Ophthalmology and Visual Science, Xiamen, Fujian, China; Affiliated Xiamen Eye
Center of Xiamen University, Xiamen, Fujian, China.

We recently demonstrated that SERPINA3K, a serine proteinase inhibitor, has
antioxidant activity in the cornea. Here we investigated the antioxidant effects 
of SERPINA3K on the pterygial, which is partially caused by oxidative stress in
pathogenesis. The head part of primary pterygial tissue was dissected and then
cultured in keratinocyte serum-free defined medium (KSFM). The cultured pterygial
epithelial cells (PECs) were treated with SERPINA3K. The cell proliferation and
migration of PECs were measured and analyzed. Western blot and quantitative
real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay were performed. It showed that
SERPINA3K significantly suppressed the cell proliferation of PECs in a
concentration-dependent manner, compared with cultured human conjunctival
epithelial cells. SERPINA3K also inhibited the cell migration of PECs. Towards
its underlying mechanism, SERPINA3K had antioxidant activities on the PECs by
significantly inhibiting NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), which is an important enzyme of 
ROS generation, and by elevating the levels of key antioxidant factors of ROS:
such as NAD(P)H dehydrogenase (quinone 1) (NQO1), NF-E2-related factor-2 (NRF2)
and superoxide dismutases (SOD2). Meanwhile, SERPINA3K down-regulated the key
effectors of Wnt signaling pathway: β-catenin, nonphospho-β-catenin, and
low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6). We provided novel
evidence that SERPINA3K had inhibitory effects on pterygium and SERPINA3K played 
antioxidant role via regulating the ROS system and antioxidants.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108859 
PMCID: PMC4189792
PMID: 25296038  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2014;34(4):1260-72. doi: 10.1159/000366336. Epub 2014 Sep
29.

Inactivation of AMPK mediates high phosphate-induced extracellular matrix
accumulation via NOX4/TGFß-1 signaling in human mesangial cells.

Papadimitriou A(1), Peixoto EB, Silva KC, Lopes de Faria JM, Lopes de Faria JB.

Author information: 
(1)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: High phosphate (Pi) levels and extracellular matrix (ECM)
accumulation are associated with chronic kidney disease progression. However, how
high Pi levels contribute to ECM accumulation in mesangial cells is unknown. The 
present study investigated the role and mechanism of high Pi levels in ECM
accumulation in immortalized human mesangial cells (iHMCs).
METHODS: iHMCs were exposed to normal (0.9 mM) or increasing Pi concentrations
(2.5 and 5 mM) with or without diferent blockers or activators. NOX4,
phosphorylated AMPK (p-AMPK), phosphorylated SMAD3 (p-SMAD3), fibronectin (F/N), 
collagen IV (C-IV) and alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) expression was assessed 
via western blot and immunofluorescence. Lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence,
and dihydroethidium (DHE) assessed NADPH oxidase activity and superoxide (SO),
respectively.
RESULTS: In iHMCs, a Pi transporter blocker (PFA) abrogated high Pi-induced AMPK 
inactivation, increase in NADPH oxidase-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS)
levels, NOX4, p-SMAD3, α-SMA and C-IV expression. AMPK activation by AICAR, NOX4 
silencing or NADPH oxidase blocker prevented high Pi-induced DHE levels, p-SMAD3,
F/N, C-IV and α-SMA expression.
CONCLUSION: AMPK inactivation with NOX4-induced ROS formation and transforming
growth factor ß-1 (TGFß-1) signaling activation mediates high Pi-induced ECM
accumulation in iHMCs. Maneuvers increasing AMPK or reducing NOX4 activity may
contribute to renal protection under hyperphosphatemia.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000366336 
PMID: 25278128  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2014;2014:678371. doi: 10.1155/2014/678371. Epub 2014 Aug
17.

Effect of staurosporine in the morphology and viability of cerebellar astrocytes:
role of reactive oxygen species and NADPH oxidase.

Olguín-Albuerne M(1), Domínguez G(1), Morán J(1).

Author information: 
(1)División de Neurociencias, Instituto de Fisiología Celular, Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México, Apartado Postal 70-253, 04510 México, DF, Mexico.

Cell death implies morphological changes that may contribute to the progression
of this process. In astrocytes, the mechanisms involving the cytoskeletal changes
during cell death are not well explored. Although NADPH oxidase (NOX) has been
described as being a critical factor in the production of ROS, not much
information is available about the participation of NOX-derived ROS in the cell
death of astrocytes and their role in the alterations of the cytoskeleton during 
the death of astrocytes. In this study, we have evaluated the participation of
ROS in the death of cultured cerebellar astrocytes using staurosporine (St) as
death inductor. We found that astrocytes express NOX1, NOX2, and NOX4. Also, St
induced an early ROS production and NOX activation that participate in the death 
of astrocytes. These findings suggest that ROS produced by St is generated
through NOX1 and NOX4. Finally, we showed that the reorganization of tubulin and 
actin induced by St is ROS independent and that St did not change the level of
expression of these cytoskeletal proteins. We conclude that ROS produced by a NOX
is required for cell death in astrocytes, but not for the morphological
alterations induced by St.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/678371 
PMCID: PMC4151592
PMID: 25215174  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 9;9(9):e107135. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107135. eCollection
2014.

NOX4 mediates BMP4-induced upregulation of TRPC1 and 6 protein expressions in
distal pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells.

Jiang Q(1), Fu X(1), Tian L(1), Chen Y(1), Yang K(2), Chen X(1), Zhang J(1), Lu
W(1), Wang J(3).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Diseases, Guangzhou Institute of
Respiratory Disease, The 1st Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Diseases, Guangzhou Institute of
Respiratory Disease, The 1st Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine,
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Diseases, Guangzhou Institute of
Respiratory Disease, The 1st Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University,
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China; Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine,
Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United States of America;
Department of Pulmonary, Inner Mongolia People's Hospital, Huhhot, Inner
Mongolia, China.

RATIONALE: Our previous studies demonstrated that bone morphogenetic protein 4
(BMP4) mediated, elevated expression of canonical transient receptor potential
(TRPC) largely accounts for the enhanced proliferation in pulmonary arterial
smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). In the present study, we sought to determine the
signaling pathway through which BMP4 up-regulates TRPC expression.
METHODS: We employed recombinant human BMP4 (rhBMP4) to determine the effects of 
BMP4 on NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in
rat distal PASMCs. We also designed small interfering RNA targeting NOX4 (siNOX4)
and detected whether NOX4 knockdown affects rhBMP4-induced ROS, TRPC1 and 6
expression, cell proliferation and intracellular Ca2+ determination in PASMCs.
RESULTS: In rhBMP4 treated rat distal PASMCs, NOX4 expression was (226.73±11.13) 
%, and the mean ROS level was (123.65±1.62) % of that in untreated control cell. 
siNOX4 transfection significantly reduced rhBMP4-induced elevation of the mean
ROS level in PASMCs. Moreover, siNOX4 transfection markedly reduced
rhBMP4-induced elevation of TRPC1 and 6 proteins, basal [Ca2+]i and SOCE.
Furthermore, compared with control group (0.21±0.001), the proliferation of
rhBMP4 treated cells was significantly enhanced (0.41±0.001) (P<0.01). However,
such increase was attenuated by knockdown of NOX4. Moreover, external ROS (H2O2
100 µM, 24 h) rescued the effects of NOX4 knockdown, which included the declining
of TRPC1 and 6 expression, basal intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i)
and store-operated calcium entry (SOCE), suggesting that NOX4 plays as an
important mediator in BMP4-induced proliferation and intracellular calcium
homeostasis.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that BMP4 may increase ROS level, enhance TRPC1
and 6 expression and proliferation by up-regulating NOX4 expression in PASMCs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107135 
PMCID: PMC4159322
PMID: 25203114  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 3;9(9):e105070. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105070. eCollection
2014.

Ameliorative effect of fisetin on cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity in rats via
modulation of NF-κB activation and antioxidant defence.

Sahu BD(1), Kalvala AK(2), Koneru M(1), Mahesh Kumar J(3), Kuncha M(1),
Rachamalla SS(4), Sistla R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacology Division, CSIR-Indian Institute of
Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, National Institute of
Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER), Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(3)Animal House, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB),
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.
(4)Faculty of Pharmacy, Osmania University, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India.

Nephrotoxicity is a dose-dependent side effect of cisplatin limiting its clinical
usage in the field of cancer chemotherapy. Fisetin is a bioactive flavonoid with 
recognized antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. In the present study, we
investigated the potential renoprotective effect and underlying mechanism of
fisetin using rat model of cisplatin-induced nephrotoxicity. The elevation in
serum biomarkers of renal damage (blood urea nitrogen and creatinine); degree of 
histopathological alterations and oxidative stress were significantly restored
towards normal in fisetin treated, cisplatin challenged animals. Fisetin
treatment also significantly attenuated the cisplatin-induced IκBα degradation
and phosphorylation and blocked the NF-κB (p65) nuclear translocation, with
subsequent elevation of pro-inflammatory cytokine, TNF-α, protein expression of
iNOS and myeloperoxidase activities. Furthermore, fisetin markedly attenuated the
translocation of cytochrome c protein from the mitochondria to the cytosol;
decreased the expression of pro-apoptotic proteins including Bax, cleaved
caspase-3, cleaved caspase-9 and p53; and prevented the decline of anti-apoptotic
protein, Bcl-2. The cisplatin-induced mRNA expression of NOX2/gp91phox and
NOX4/RENOX and the NADPH oxidase enzyme activity were also significantly lowered 
by fisetin treatment. Moreover, the evaluated mitochondrial respiratory enzyme
activities and mitochondrial antioxidants were restored by fisetin treatment.
Estimation of platinum concentration in kidney tissues revealed that fisetin
treatment along with cisplatin did not alter the cisplatin uptake in kidney
tissues. In conclusion, these findings suggest that fisetin may be used as a
promising adjunct candidate for cisplatin use.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105070 
PMCID: PMC4153571
PMID: 25184746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 21;9(8):e105337. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105337.
eCollection 2014.

Upregulation of intermediate-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (KCNN4) in
porcine coronary smooth muscle requires NADPH oxidase 5 (NOX5).

Gole HK(1), Tharp DL(1), Bowles DK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Missouri Columbia, Columbia, 
Missouri, United States of America.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Missouri Columbia, Columbia, 
Missouri, United States of America; Dalton Cardiovascular Research Center,
University of Missouri Columbia, Columbia, Missouri, United States of America;
Medical Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Missouri Columbia, Columbia,
Missouri, United States of America.

AIMS: NADPH oxidase (NOX) is the primary source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
in vascular smooth muscle cells (SMC) and is proposed to play a key role in redox
signaling involved in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disease. Growth factors 
and cytokines stimulate coronary SMC (CSMC) phenotypic modulation, proliferation,
and migration during atherosclerotic plaque development and restenosis. We
previously demonstrated that increased expression and activity of
intermediate-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (KCNN4) is necessary for 
CSMC phenotypic modulation and progression of stenotic lesions. Therefore, the
purpose of this study was to determine whether NOX is required for KCNN4
upregulation induced by mitogenic growth factors.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Dihydroethidium micro-fluorography in porcine CSMCs
demonstrated that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) increased superoxide
production, which was blocked by the NOX inhibitor apocynin (Apo). Apo also
blocked bFGF-induced increases in KCNN4 mRNA levels in both right coronary artery
sections and CSMCs. Similarly, immunohistochemistry and whole cell voltage clamp 
showed bFGF-induced increases in CSMC KCNN4 protein expression and channel
activity were abolished by Apo. Treatment with Apo also inhibited bFGF-induced
increases in activator protein-1 promoter activity, as measured by luciferase
activity assay. qRT-PCR demonstrated porcine coronary smooth muscle expression of
NOX1, NOX2, NOX4, and NOX5 isoforms. Knockdown of NOX5 alone prevented both
bFGF-induced upregulation of KCNN4 mRNA and CSMC migration.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings provide novel evidence that NOX5-derived ROS increase
functional expression of KCNN4 through activator protein-1, providing another
potential link between NOX, CSMC phenotypic modulation, and atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105337 
PMCID: PMC4140784
PMID: 25144362  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 14;9(8):e103786. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103786.
eCollection 2014.

Role of vascular smooth muscle PPARγ in regulating AT1 receptor signaling and
angiotensin II-dependent hypertension.

Carrillo-Sepulveda MA(1), Keen HL(1), Davis DR(1), Grobe JL(1), Sigmund CD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Roy J. and A. Lucille Carver College of
Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, Iowa, United States of America.

Peroxisome proliferator activated receptor γ (PPARγ) has been reported to play a 
protective role in the vasculature; however, the underlying mechanisms involved
are not entirely known. We previously showed that vascular smooth muscle-specific
overexpression of a dominant negative human PPARγ mutation in mice (S-P467L)
leads to enhanced myogenic tone and increased angiotensin-II-dependent
vasoconstriction. S-P467L mice also exhibit increased arterial blood pressure.
Here we tested the hypotheses that a) mesenteric smooth muscle cells isolated
from S-P467L mice exhibit enhanced angiotensin-II AT1 receptor signaling, and b) 
the increased arterial pressure of S-P467L mice is angiotensin-II AT1 receptor
dependent. Phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein/extracellular
signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) was robustly increased in mesenteric artery
smooth muscle cell cultures from S-P467L in response to angiotensin-II. The
increase in ERK1/2 activation by angiotensin-II was blocked by losartan, a
blocker of AT1 receptors. Angiotensin-II-induced ERK1/2 activation was also
blocked by Tempol, a scavenger of reactive oxygen species, and correlated with
increased Nox4 protein expression. To investigate whether endogenous
renin-angiotensin system activity contributes to the elevated arterial pressure
in S-P467L, non-transgenic and S-P467L mice were treated with the AT1 receptor
blocker, losartan (30 mg/kg per day), for 14-days and arterial pressure was
assessed by radiotelemetry. At baseline S-P467L mice showed a significant
increase of systolic arterial pressure (142.0 ± 10.2 vs 129.1 ± 3.0 mmHg,
p<0.05). Treatment with losartan lowered systolic arterial pressure in S-P467L
(132.2 ± 6.9 mmHg) to a level similar to untreated non-transgenic mice. Losartan 
also lowered arterial pressure in non-transgenic (113.0 ± 3.9 mmHg) mice, such
that there was no difference in the losartan-induced depressor response between
groups (-13.53 ± 1.39 in S-P467L vs -16.16 ± 3.14 mmHg in non-transgenic). Our
results suggest that interference with PPARγ in smooth muscle: a) causes enhanced
angiotensin-II AT1 receptor-mediated ERK1/2 activation in resistance vessels, b) 
and may elevate arterial pressure through both angiotensin-II AT1
receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103786 
PMCID: PMC4133177
PMID: 25122005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Neurol Sci. 2015 Jan;36(1):61-71. doi: 10.1007/s10072-014-1909-z. Epub 2014 Jul
31.

Expression and clinical significance of non-phagocytic cell oxidase 2 and 4 after
human traumatic brain injury.

Li Z(1), Tian F, Shao Z, Shen X, Qi X, Li H, Wang Z, Chen G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Jingjiang People's Hospital, Yangzhou University, 
Yangzhou, 214500, Jiangsu, China.

The goal of this study was to examine NOX2 and NOX4 expression in clinical
samples of patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI), and to explore the
correlation of NOX2 and NOX4 expression with the severity of injury, duration of 
injury, and prognosis. Brain samples of 20 TBI patients within 1 cm of the
contusion site were collected and grouped based on duration of injury, Glasgow
Coma Scale (GCS) and Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS), and immunofluorescence staining
were performed to examine the expression levels of NOX2 and NOX4 in the neurons
and astrocytes. We found that the expression level of NOX2 in neurons and
positive rate of NOX2 expression in astrocytes peaked at 12-24 and 6-12 h after
injury, respectively. The expression level of NOX4 in neurons peaked at 24-48 h, 
and the positive rate of NOX4 expression gradually increased with prolonged
injury. We also found that the higher the GCS score, the lower the expression
levels of NOX2 and NOX4 in neurons was, while higher the GCS score, the lower the
positive rate of NOX4 expression in astrocytes was and the higher the GOS grade, 
the lower the positive rate of expression in astrocytes was. In conclusion, NOX2 
and NOX4 expressions significantly increase at an early stage after TBI, and
abnormal expressions of NOX2 and NOX4 are correlated to patient prognosis to
certain extent.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-014-1909-z 
PMID: 25079350  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Kidney Int. 2015 Feb;87(2):359-69. doi: 10.1038/ki.2014.274. Epub 2014 Jul 30.

Angiotensin(1-7) attenuates the progression of streptozotocin-induced diabetic
renal injury better than angiotensin receptor blockade.

Zhang K(1), Meng X(1), Li D(2), Yang J(1), Kong J(1), Hao P(1), Guo T(1), Zhang
M(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and Function Research, Chinese
Ministry of Education and Chinese Ministry of Health, Department of Cardiology,
Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Qilu Children's Hospital of Shandong University,
Jinan, China.

To explore the potential therapeutic effects of angiotensin(1-7) (Ang(1-7)), an
endogenous ligand of the Mas receptor, on streptozotocin-induced diabetic
nephropathy, male Wistar rats were randomly divided into two groups: a control
group and a diabetic model group. After 12 weeks, the diabetic rats were divided 
into subgroups for 4-week treatments consisting of no-treatment group, small-,
moderate-, and large-dose Ang(1-7) groups, a valsartan group, a large-dose
Ang(1-7) plus valsartan group, and an A779 (antagonist of the Mas receptor)
group, each with 15 rats. Ang(1-7) improved renal function, attenuated glomeruli 
sclerosis, oxidative stress, and cell proliferation, decreased the expression of 
collagen IV, TGF-β1, VEGF, NOX4, p47phox, PKCα, and PKCβ1, and the
phosphorylation of Smad3. In the rat mesangial HBZY-1 cell line, Ang(1-7)
decreased high-glucose-induced oxidative stress, the proliferation and expression
of NOX4, p47phox, and TGF-β1, the phosphorylation of Smad3, collagen IV, and
VEGF, and the membrane translocation of PKCα and PKCβ1. A779 blocked the effects 
of Ang(1-7) both in vivo and in vitro. The effects of large-dose Ang(1-7) alone
and in combination with valsartan were superior to valsartan alone, but the
combination had no significant synergistic effect compared with Ang(1-7) alone.
Thus, Ang(1-7) ameliorated streptozotocin-induced diabetic renal injury.
Large-dose treatment was superior to valsartan in reducing oxidative stress and
inhibiting TGFβ1/Smad3- and VEGF-mediated pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2014.274 
PMCID: PMC4317508
PMID: 25075768  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Diabetes. 2015 Jan;64(1):36-48. doi: 10.2337/db14-0267. Epub 2014 Jul 28.

Adiponectin stimulates autophagy and reduces oxidative stress to enhance insulin 
sensitivity during high-fat diet feeding in mice.

Liu Y(1), Palanivel R(1), Rai E(1), Park M(1), Gabor TV(1), Scheid MP(1), Xu
A(2), Sweeney G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology and Department of
Medicine, the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(3)Department of Biology, York University, Toronto, ON, Canada gsweeney@yorku.ca.

Numerous studies have characterized the antidiabetic effects of adiponectin, yet 
the precise cellular mechanisms in skeletal muscle, in particular, changes in
autophagy, require further clarification. In the current study, we used a
high-fat diet (HFD) to induce obesity and insulin resistance in wild-type (WT) or
adiponectin knockout (Ad-KO) mice with and without adiponectin replenishment.
Temporal analysis of glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity using
hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp and muscle insulin receptor substrate and Akt
phosphorylation demonstrated exaggerated and more rapid HFD-induced insulin
resistance in skeletal muscle of Ad-KO mice. Superoxide dismutase activity, the
reduced glutathione-to-glutathione disulfide ratio, and lipid peroxidation
indicated that HFD-induced oxidative stress was corrected by adiponectin. Gene
array analysis implicated several antioxidant enzymes, including Gpxs, Prdx, Sod,
and Nox4, in mediating this effect. Adiponectin also attenuated palmitate-induced
reactive oxygen species production in cultured myotubes and improved
insulin-stimulated glucose uptake in primary muscle cells. Increased LC3-II and
decreased p62 expression suggested that HFD induced autophagy in muscle of WT
mice; however, these changes were not observed in Ad-KO mice. Replenishing
adiponectin in Ad-KO mice increased LC3-II and Beclin1 and decreased p62 protein 
levels, induced fibroblast growth factor-21 expression, and corrected HFD-induced
decreases in LC3, Beclin1, and ULK1 gene expression. In vitro studies examining
changes in phospho-ULK1 (Ser555), LC3-II, and lysosomal enzyme activity confirmed
that adiponectin directly induced autophagic flux in cultured muscle cells in an 
AMPK-dependent manner. We overexpressed an inactive mutant of Atg5 to create an
autophagy-deficient cell model, and together with pharmacological inhibition of
autophagy, demonstrated reduced insulin sensitivity under these conditions. In
summary, adiponectin stimulated skeletal muscle autophagy and antioxidant
potential to reduce insulin resistance caused by HFD.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as long
as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, and the
work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/db14-0267 
PMID: 25071026  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2015 Jan;78:174-85. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2014.07.005. Epub
2014 Jul 24.

Netrin-1 abrogates ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiac mitochondrial dysfunction
via nitric oxide-dependent attenuation of NOX4 activation and recoupling of NOS.

Siu KL(1), Lotz C(2), Ping P(2), Cai H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Department of Anesthesiology, 
Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of Medicine at
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Divisions of
Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular
Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of Medicine at University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Physiology, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen
School of Medicine at University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Department of Anesthesiology, 
Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of Medicine at
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Divisions of
Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Cardiovascular
Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of Medicine at University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address:
hcai@mednet.ucla.edu.

Despite an established role of mitochondrial dysfunction in cardiac
ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, the upstream activators have remained
incompletely defined. We have recently identified an innovative role of
exogenously applied netrin-1 in cardioprotection, which is mediated by increased 
nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Here, we tested the hypothesis that this
"pharmacological" treatment of netrin-1 preserves mitochondrial function via
novel mechanisms that are NO dependent. Freshly isolated C57BL6 mouse hearts were
perfused using a Langendorff system, and subjected to a 20min global
ischemia/60min reperfusion, in the presence or absence of netrin-1. I/R induced
marked increases in infarct size, total superoxide and hydrogen peroxide
production, activity and protein abundance of NADPH oxidase (NOX) isoform 4
(NOX4), as well as impaired mitochondrial integrity and function, all of which
were attenuated by netrin-1. This protective effect of netrin-1 is attributed to 
cGMP, a downstream effector of NO. The protein levels of NOX1 and NOX2 were
however unaffected, and infarct size from NOX1 and NOX2 knockouts was not
different from wild type animals. Scavenging of NO with PTIO reversed inhibitory 
effects of netrin-1 on NOX4, while NO donor attenuated NOX4 protein abundance. In
vivo NOX4 RNAi, or sepiapterin perfusion, resulted in recoupling of NOS,
decreased infarct size, and blockade of dysfunctional mitochondrial swelling and 
mitochondrial superoxide production. These data demonstrate that netrin-1 induces
cardioprotection through inhibition of NOX4 activity, which leads to recoupling
of NOS, augmented NO bioavailability, reduction in oxidative stress, and
ultimately preservation of mitochondrial function. The NO-dependent NOX4
inhibition connects with our previously established pathway of
DCC/ERK1/2/eNOS/NO/DCC feed-forward mechanism, to maintain NOS in the coupling
state to attenuate oxidative stress to preserve mitochondrial function. These
findings may promote development of novel therapeutics for cardiac I/R injury.
This article is part of a Special Issue entitled "Mitochondria: From Basic
Mitochondrial Biology to Cardiovascular Disease".

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2014.07.005 
PMCID: PMC4268247
PMID: 25066694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Sep;25(9):452-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.06.012.
Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Endothelial NADPH oxidases: which NOX to target in vascular disease?

Drummond GR(1), Sobey CG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology and Immunopharmacology Group, Department of Pharmacology,
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia; Department of Surgery, Monash
Medical Centre, Southern Clinical School, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria,
Australia. Electronic address: grant.drummond@monash.edu.
(2)Vascular Biology and Immunopharmacology Group, Department of Pharmacology,
Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia; Department of Surgery, Monash
Medical Centre, Southern Clinical School, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria,
Australia.

NADPH oxidases (NOXs) are reactive oxygen species (ROS)-generating enzymes
implicated in the pathophysiology of vascular diseases such as hypertension and
stroke. Endothelial cells express four NOX isoforms including the
superoxide-generating enzymes NOX1, NOX2, and NOX5 and the hydrogen
peroxide-generating enzyme NOX4. Studies on arteries from patients with coronary 
artery disease, and in animals with experimentally induced hypertension,
diabetes, or atherosclerosis, suggest that NOX1, NOX2, and NOX5 promote
endothelial dysfunction, inflammation, and apoptosis in the vessel wall, whereas 
NOX4 is by contrast vasoprotective in increasing nitric oxide bioavailability and
suppressing cell death pathways. Based on these findings and promising
preclinical studies with the NOX1/NOX2 antagonist, apocynin, we suggest that the 
field is poised for clinical evaluation of NOX inhibitors as therapeutics for
cardiovascular disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.06.012 
PMID: 25066192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2014 Oct 1;307(7):H945-57. doi:
10.1152/ajpheart.00918.2013. Epub 2014 Jul 25.

Poldip2 controls vascular smooth muscle cell migration by regulating focal
adhesion turnover and force polarization.

Datla SR(1), McGrail DJ(2), Vukelic S(1), Huff LP(1), Lyle AN(1), Pounkova L(1), 
Lee M(1), Seidel-Rogol B(1), Khalil MK(1), Hilenski LL(1), Terada LS(3), Dawson
MR(4), Lassègue B(1), Griendling KK(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta;
(2)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care,
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas.
(4)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering and The Petit Institute
for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta,
Georgia;
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta; kgriend@emory.edu.

Polymerase-δ-interacting protein 2 (Poldip2) interacts with NADPH oxidase 4
(Nox4) and regulates migration; however, the precise underlying mechanisms are
unclear. Here, we investigated the role of Poldip2 in focal adhesion turnover, as
well as traction force generation and polarization. Poldip2 overexpression
(AdPoldip2) in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) impairs PDGF-induced
migration and induces a characteristic phenotype of long cytoplasmic extensions. 
AdPoldip2 also prevents the decrease in spreading and increased aspect ratio
observed in response to PDGF and slightly impairs cell contraction. Moreover,
AdPoldip2 blocks focal adhesion dissolution and sustains H2O2 levels in focal
adhesions, whereas Poldip2 knockdown (siPoldip2) significantly decreases the
number of focal adhesions. RhoA activity is unchanged when focal adhesion
dissolution is stimulated in control cells but increases in AdPoldip2-treated
cells. Inhibition of RhoA blocks Poldip2-mediated attenuation of focal adhesion
dissolution, and overexpression of RhoA or focal adhesion kinase (FAK) reverses
the loss of focal adhesions induced by siPoldip2, indicating that RhoA and FAK
mediate the effect of Poldip2 on focal adhesions. Nox4 silencing prevents focal
adhesion stabilization by AdPoldip2 and induces a phenotype similar to siPoldip2,
suggesting a role for Nox4 in Poldip2-induced focal adhesion stability. As a
consequence of impaired focal adhesion turnover, PDGF-treated AdPoldip2 cells are
unable to reduce and polarize traction forces, a necessary first step in
migration. These results implicate Poldip2 in VSMC migration via regulation of
focal adhesion turnover and traction force generation in a
Nox4/RhoA/FAK-dependent manner.

Copyright © 2014 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00918.2013 
PMCID: PMC4187069
PMID: 25063792  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 22;9(7):e101671. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101671.
eCollection 2014.

Roles of the kinase TAK1 in CD40-mediated effects on vascular oxidative stress
and neointima formation after vascular injury.

Song Z(1), Zhu X(2), Jin R(2), Wang C(3), Yan J(4), Zheng Q(5), Nanda A(2),
Granger DN(6), Li G(7).

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology and Stroke Research Laboratory, Department of Neurosurgery,
LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, Louisiana, United States of 
America; Department of General Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Vascular Biology and Stroke Research Laboratory, Department of Neurosurgery,
LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, Louisiana, United States of 
America.
(3)Vascular Biology and Stroke Research Laboratory, Department of Neurosurgery,
LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, Louisiana, United States of 
America; Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University,
Jiangsu, Zhenjiang, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University,
Jiangsu, Zhenjiang, China.
(5)Department of General Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(6)Department of Physiology, LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport, Shreveport,
Louisiana, United States of America.
(7)Vascular Biology and Stroke Research Laboratory, Department of Neurosurgery,
LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport, Shreveport, Louisiana, United States of 
America; Department of Physiology, LSU Health Science Center in Shreveport,
Shreveport, Louisiana, United States of America.

Although TAK1 has been implicated in inflammation and oxidative stress, its roles
in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and in response to vascular injury have
not been investigated. The present study aimed to investigate the role of TAK1 in
modulating oxidative stress in VSMCs and its involvement in neointima formation
after vascular injury. Double immunostaining reveals that vascular injury induces
a robust phosphorylation of TAK1 (Thr187) in the medial VSMCs of injured arteries
in wildtype mice, but this effect is blocked in CD40-deficient mice. Upregulation
of TAK1 in VSMCs is functionally important, as it is critically involved in
pro-oxidative and pro-inflammatory effects on VSMCs and eventual neointima
formation. In vivo, pharmacological inhibition of TAK1 with 5Z-7-oxozeaenol
blocked the injury-induced phosphorylation of both TAK1 (Thr187) and NF-kB/p65
(Ser536), associated with marked inhibition of superoxide production,
3-nitrotyrosine, and MCP-1 in the injured arteries. Cell culture experiments
demonstrated that either siRNA knockdown or 5Z-7-oxozeaenol inhibition of TAK1
significantly attenuated NADPH oxidase activation and superoxide production
induced by CD40L/CD40 stimulation. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments indicate
that blockade of TAK1 disrupted the CD40L-induced complex formation of p22phox
with p47phox, p67phox, or Nox4. Blockade of TAK1 also inhibited CD40L-induced
NF-kB activation by modulating IKKα/β and NF-kB p65 phosphorylation and this was 
related to reduced expression of proinflammatory genes (IL-6, MCP-1 and ICAM-1)
in VSMCs. Lastly, treatment with 5Z-7-oxozeaenol attenuated neointimal formation 
in wire-injured femoral arteries. Our findings demonstrate previously
uncharacterized roles of TAK1 in vascular oxidative stress and the contribution
to neointima formation after vascular injury.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101671 
PMCID: PMC4106789
PMID: 25050617  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Postepy Biochem. 2014;60(1):69-76.

[The role of NADPH oxidase NOX4 in regulation of proliferation, senescence and
differentiation of the cells].

[Article in Polish]

Przybylska D, Mosieniak G.

NADPH oxidase NOX4 is a source of reactive oxygen species in many tissue of human
body. NOX4 products of activity are connected with various processes that take on
the cellular and tissue level. One of them is cellular senescence. The role of
this oxidase in the regulation of replicative and oncogene-induced senescence was
shown in both normal and cancer cells. On the other hand NOX4 also stimulates to 
proliferation various types of cancer and primary cells, what promotes
pathologies. NOX4 participates in epithelial-mesenchymal transition, important
for tumor cells invasion and metastasis. Many research concern the role of NOX4
in the physiology and pathology of the cardiovascular system. It was shown that
NOX4 has an impact on vasoconstriction, atherosclerosis development, vascular
cells hypertrophy, apoptosis and differentiation. NOX4 plays both positive and
negative role in the organism. Better understanding of NOX4 regulation and its
involvement in signaling pathways give a hope to control the development of many 
diseases.


PMID: 25033544  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2014 Oct;1837(10):1790-800. doi:
10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.07.005. Epub 2014 Jul 11.

Evidence of oxidative stress and mitochondrial respiratory chain dysfunction in
an in vitro model of sepsis-induced kidney injury.

Quoilin C(1), Mouithys-Mickalad A(2), Lécart S(3), Fontaine-Aupart MP(4), Hoebeke
M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biomedical Spectroscopy, Department of Physics, University of
Liège, 4000 Liège, Belgium. Electronic address: cquoilin@ulg.ac.be.
(2)Center of Oxygen Research and Development, Department of Chemistry, University
of Liège, 4000 Liège, Belgium.
(3)Centre de Photonique Biomédicale, CPBM/CLUPS, Fédération LUMAT, University
Paris Sud, 91405 Orsay, France.
(4)Centre de Photonique Biomédicale, CPBM/CLUPS, Fédération LUMAT, University
Paris Sud, 91405 Orsay, France; Institut des Sciences Moléculaires d'Orsay, CNRS 
and University Paris Sud, 91405 Orsay, France.
(5)Laboratory of Biomedical Spectroscopy, Department of Physics, University of
Liège, 4000 Liège, Belgium.

To investigate the role of oxidative stress and/or mitochondrial impairment in
the occurrence of acute kidney injury (AKI) during sepsis, we developed a
sepsis-induced in vitro model using proximal tubular epithelial cells exposed to 
a bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS). This investigation has provided 
key features on the relationship between oxidative stress and mitochondrial
respiratory chain activity defects. LPS treatment resulted in an increase in the 
expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX-4),
suggesting the cytosolic overexpression of nitric oxide and superoxide anion, the
primary reactive nitrogen species (RNS) and reactive oxygen species (ROS). This
oxidant state seemed to interrupt mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation by
reducing cytochrome c oxidase activity. As a consequence, disruptions in the
electron transport and the proton pumping across the mitochondrial inner membrane
occurred, leading to a decrease of the mitochondrial membrane potential, a
release of apoptotic-inducing factors and a depletion of adenosine triphosphate. 
Interestingly, after being targeted by RNS and ROS, mitochondria became in turn
producer of ROS, thus contributing to increase the mitochondrial dysfunction. The
role of oxidants in mitochondrial dysfunction was further confirmed by the use of
iNOS inhibitors or antioxidants that preserve cytochrome c oxidase activity and
prevent mitochondrial membrane potential dissipation. These results suggest that 
sepsis-induced AKI should not only be regarded as failure of energy status but
also as an integrated response, including transcriptional events, ROS signaling, 
mitochondrial activity and metabolic orientation such as apoptosis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbabio.2014.07.005 
PMID: 25019585  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Sep;74:263-73. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.07.003. Epub 2014 Jul 10.

Complement-dependent NADPH oxidase enzyme activation in renal
ischemia/reperfusion injury.

Simone S(1), Rascio F(2), Castellano G(1), Divella C(1), Chieti A(1), Ditonno
P(3), Battaglia M(3), Crovace A(4), Staffieri F(4), Oortwijn B(5), Stallone G(6),
Gesualdo L(1), Pertosa G(1), Grandaliano G(6).

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology, Dialysis, and Transplantation Unit, Department of Emergency and
Organ Transplantation, University of Bari "Aldo Moro," 70121 Bari, Italy.
(2)Nephrology, Dialysis, and Transplantation Unit, Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, 71100 Foggia, Italy. Electronic address:
federica.rascio@gmail.com.
(3)Urology, Andrology, and Renal Transplantation Unit, and Department of
Emergency and Organ Transplantation, University of Bari "Aldo Moro," 70121 Bari, 
Italy.
(4)Veterinary Surgery Unit, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation,
University of Bari "Aldo Moro," 70121 Bari, Italy.
(5)Pharming BV, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(6)Nephrology, Dialysis, and Transplantation Unit, Department of Medical and
Surgical Sciences, University of Foggia, 71100 Foggia, Italy.

NADPH oxidase plays a central role in mediating oxidative stress during heart,
liver, and lung ischemia/reperfusion injury, but limited information is available
about NADPH oxidase in renal ischemia/reperfusion injury. Our aim was to
investigate the activation of NADPH oxidase in a swine model of renal
ischemia/reperfusion damage. We induced renal ischemia/reperfusion in 10 pigs,
treating 5 of them with human recombinant C1 inhibitor, and we collected kidney
biopsies before ischemia and 15, 30, and 60 min after reperfusion.
Ischemia/reperfusion induced a significant increase in NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX-4)
expression at the tubular level, an upregulation of NOX-2 expression in
infiltrating monocytes and myeloid dendritic cells, and
8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine synthesis along with a marked upregulation of
NADPH-dependent superoxide generation. This burden of oxidative stress was
associated with an increase in tubular and interstitial expression of the
myofibroblast marker α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA). Interestingly, NOX-4 and
NOX-2 expression and the overall NADPH oxidase activity as well as α-SMA
expression and 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine synthesis were strongly
reduced in C1-inhibitor-treated animals. In vitro, when we incubated tubular
cells with the anaphylotoxin C3a, we observed an enhanced NADPH oxidase activity 
and α-SMA protein expression, which were both abolished by NOX-4 silencing. In
conclusion, our findings suggest that NADPH oxidase is activated during
ischemia/reperfusion in a complement-dependent manner and may play a potential
role in the pathogenesis of progressive renal damage in this setting.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.07.003 
PMID: 25017967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Zhongguo Ying Yong Sheng Li Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Mar;30(2):147-52.

[Effect of sequoyitol on expression of NOX4 and eNOS induced with glucose in
human umbilical vein endothelial cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Li XW, Hao W, Liu Y, Yang JR.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the protective effect and mechanism of sequoyitol (Sep)
on high glucose-induced human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) injury.
METHODS: HUVECs were cultured with high glucose (30 mmol/L) in the presence or
absence of sequoyitol (0.1, 1 and 10 micromol/L) for 24 h. Cell proliferation was
measured by BrdU marking and cell cycle was detected by flow cytometry. 2',
7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate was used to evaluate intracellular reactive
oxygen species (ROS) levels. The NO, malonydialdehyde (MDA) and H2O2 levels were 
determined by colorimetric method according to the manufacturer's instructions.
The expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and NADPH oxidase 4
(NOX4) were measured by real-time PCR and Western blot.
RESULTS: In the present study, we found that sequoyitol pretreatment for 1 h
significantly decreased cell injury, promoted cell proliferation. Meanwhile
sequoyitol significantly down-regulated NOX4 expression and decreased the level
of ROS, MDA and H2O2 and obviously increased NO levels and up-regulated eNOS
expression.
CONCLUSION: Sequoyitol alleviates high glucose-induced cell injuries in HUVECs
via inhibiting oxidative stress and up-regulating eNOS expression.


PMID: 25016868  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Sep;74:294-306. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.06.015. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

Nε-carboxymethyllysine-mediated endoplasmic reticulum stress promotes endothelial
cell injury through Nox4/MKP-3 interaction.

Lee WJ(1), Sheu WH(2), Liu SH(3), Yi YC(4), Chen WC(4), Lin SY(5), Liang KW(6),
Shen CC(7), Yeh HY(8), Lin LY(9), Tsai YC(10), Tien HR(11), Lee MR(12), Yang
TJ(12), Sheu ML(13).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Research, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan; Department of Social Work, Tunghai University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan; Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Chung Hsing University,
Taichung 402, Taiwan; Rong Hsing Research Center for Translational Medicine, and 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Toxicology, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Taichung Veterans General Hospital,
Taichung, Taiwan.
(5)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine,
Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)Cardiovascular Center, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(7)Institute of Nuclear Energy Research, Atomic Energy Council, Longtan, Taoyuan,
Taiwan.
(8)Department of Nutrition and Institute of Biomedical Nutrition and Hung-Kuang
University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Food and Nutrition, Hung-Kuang University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, Taichung Veterans General Hospital,
Taichung, Taiwan; Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Chung Hsing
University, Taichung 402, Taiwan.
(11)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung
402, Taiwan.
(12)Department of Chemistry, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402,
Taiwan.
(13)Department of Medical Research, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, Taichung,
Taiwan; Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Chung Hsing University,
Taichung 402, Taiwan; Rong Hsing Research Center for Translational Medicine, and 
National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, Taiwan. Electronic address:
mlsheu@nchu.edu.tw.

N(ε)-carboxymethyllysine (CML) is an important driver of diabetic vascular
complications and endothelial cell dysfunction. However, how CML dictates
specific cellular responses and the roles of protein tyrosine phosphatases and
ERK phosphorylation remain unclear. We examined whether endoplasmic reticulum
(ER) localization of MAPK phosphatase-3 (MKP-3) is critical in regulating ERK
inactivation and promoting NADPH oxidase-4 (Nox4) activation in CML-induced
endothelial cell injury. We demonstrated that serum CML levels were significantly
increased in type 2 diabetes patients and diabetic animals. CML induced ER stress
and apoptosis, reduced ERK activation, and increased MKP-3 protein activity in
HUVECs and SVECs. MKP-3 siRNA transfection, but not that of MKP-1 or MKP-2,
abolished the effects of CML on HUVECs. Nox4-mediated activation of MKP-3
regulated the switch to ERK dephosphorylation. CML also increased the integration
of MKP-3 with ERK, which was blocked by silencing MKP-3. Exposure of antioxidants
abolished CML-increased MKP-3 activity and protein expression. Furthermore,
immunohistochemical staining of both MKP-3 and CML was increased, but phospho-ERK
staining was decreased in the aortic endothelium of streptozotocin-induced and
high-fat diet-induced diabetic mice. Our results indicate that an MKP-3 pathway
might regulate ERK dephosphorylation through Nox4 during CML-triggered
endothelial cell dysfunction/injury, suggesting that therapeutic strategies
targeting the Nox4/MKP-3 interaction or MKP-3 activation may have clinical
implications for diabetic vascular complications.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.06.015 
PMID: 25014566  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Invest Dermatol. 2015 Jan;135(1):258-268. doi: 10.1038/jid.2014.288. Epub 2014 
Jul 9.

Galectin-1 accelerates wound healing by regulating the neuropilin-1/Smad3/NOX4
pathway and ROS production in myofibroblasts.

Lin YT(1), Chen JS(2), Wu MH(3), Hsieh IS(2), Liang CH(1), Hsu CL(4), Hong TM(5),
Chen YL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Oral Medicine, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Institute for Translational Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, Chang
Gung Memorial Hospital, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address:
tmhong@mail.ncku.edu.tw.
(6)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan; Institute of Oral Medicine, College of Medicine,
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address:
yuhling@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

Myofibroblasts have a key role in wound healing by secreting growth factors and
chemoattractants to create new substrates and proteins in the extracellular
matrix. We have found that galectin-1, a β-galactose-binding lectin involved in
many physiological functions, induces myofibroblast activation; however, the
mechanism remains unclear. Here, we reveal that galectin-1-null (Lgals1(-/-))
mice exhibited a delayed cutaneous wound healing response. Galectin-1 induced
myofibroblast activation, migration, and proliferation by triggering
intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. A ROS-producing protein, 
NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), was upregulated by galectin-1 through the
neuropilin-1/Smad3 signaling pathway in myofibroblasts. Subcutaneous injection of
galectin-1 into wound areas accelerated the healing of general and pathological
(streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus) wounds and decreased the mortality of 
diabetic mice with skin wounds. These findings indicate that galectin-1 is a key 
regulator of wound repair that has therapeutic potential for pathological or
imperfect wound healing.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2014.288 
PMID: 25007042  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Life Sci. 2014 Aug 6;110(1):44-51. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.06.020. Epub 2014 Jul 
2.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress plays a role in the advanced glycation end
product-induced inflammatory response in endothelial cells.

Wu L(1), Wang D(1), Xiao Y(1), Zhou X(1), Wang L(1), Chen B(1), Li Q(1), Guo
X(1), Huang Q(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Key Lab for Shock and Microcirculation
Research, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, P. R. China.
(2)Department of Pathophysiology, Key Lab for Shock and Microcirculation
Research, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou 510515, P. R. China. Electronic 
address: bing@smu.edu.cn.

AIMS: Both advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) 
stress play important roles in the development of various diseases. This study
aimed to clarify the consequence of AGE-induced ER stress and its underlying
mechanisms in human umbilical venous endothelial cells (HUVECs).
MAIN METHODS: AGE-induced ER stress was assessed by the increased expression and 
activation of the ER stress marker proteins GRP78, IRE1α and JNK, which were
detected using Western blot. NF-κB translocation was revealed using Western blot 
and immunofluorescent staining in IRE1α-knockdown HUVECs. The mechanism of
AGE-induced ER stress was also explored by inhibiting the effect of reactive
oxygen species (ROS) using NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) siRNA and the antioxidant
reduced glutathione (GSH). The cellular ROS level was measured using flow
cytometry.
KEY FINDINGS: AGEs time- and dose-dependently enhanced the expression of GRP78
and increased the phosphorylation of IRE1α and its downstream signal JNK in
HUVECs. siRNA-induced IRE1α down-regulation suppressed AGE-induced NF-κB p65
nuclear translocation. Inhibiting the ROS production using Nox4 siRNA or
antagonizing ROS using GSH reduced cellular ROS level and attenuated AGE-induced 
GRP78 expression and IRE1α and JNK activation.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study confirms that AGE-induced ER stress in HUVECs focuses on
the ER stress-enhanced inflammatory response through JNK and NF-κB activation. It
further reveals the involvement of ROS in the AGE-induced ER stress mechanism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.06.020 
PMID: 24997392  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mol Cell Oncol. 2014 Dec 23;1(3):e964033. doi: 10.4161/23723548.2014.964033.
eCollection 2014 Jul-Sep.

Reactive oxygen species: The good, the bad, and the enigma.

Ogrunc M(1).

Author information: 
(1)IFOM Foundation - FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology Foundation ; Milan,
Italy.

Work carried out primarily in the laboratory of Fabrizio d'Adda di Fagagna
unveils the mitogenic properties of Ras-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and
their relationship with the DNA damage response. Combined data from studies of
cultured cells, zebrafish models, and clinical material consistently support a
role of the RAS-RAC1-NOX4 axis in ROS induction, hyperproliferation, and
senescence.

DOI: 10.4161/23723548.2014.964033 
PMCID: PMC4904994
PMID: 27308352 


31. BMC Neurosci. 2014 Jun 26;15:80. doi: 10.1186/1471-2202-15-80.

HIV-1 Tat C phosphorylates VE-cadherin complex and increases human brain
microvascular endothelial cell permeability.

Mishra R, Singh SK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurovirology and Inflammation Biology, CSIR-Centre for Cellular
and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Uppal Road, Hyderabad 500007, India.
sunitsingh2000@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMVECs) are integral
part of the blood brain barrier. Post-translational modifications of adherens
junction proteins regulate the permeability of human brain microvascular
endothelial cells. Pro-inflammatory signals can induce tyrosine phosphorylation
of adherens junction proteins. The primary objective of this work is to provide a
molecular model; how the HIV-1 Tat protein can compromise the BBB integrity and
eventually lead to neurological consequences. We exposed hBMVECs to recombinant
HIV-1 clade C Tat protein to study the effect of HIV-1 Tat C on permeability of
hBMVECs. Trans-endothelial electrical resistance and fluorescent dye migration
assay have been used to check the permeability of hBMVECs. DCFDA staining has
been used for intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) detection. Western
blotting has been used to study the expression levels and co-immunoprecipitation 
has been used to study the interactions among adherens junction proteins.
RESULTS: HIV-1 Tat C protein induced NOX2 and NOX4 expression level and increased
intracellular ROS level. Redox-sensitive kinase; PYK2 activation led to increased
tyrosine phosphorylation of VE-cadherin and β-catenin, leading to disruption of
junctional assembly. The dissociation of tyrosine phosphatases VE-PTP and SHP2
from cadherin complex resulted into increased tyrosine phosphorylation of
VE-cadherin and β-catenin in HIV-1 Tat C treated hBMVECs.
CONCLUSION: Unrestricted phosphorylation of junctional proteins in hBMVECs, in
response to HIV-1 Tat C protein; leads to the disruption of junctional complexes 
and increased endothelial permeability.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2202-15-80 
PMCID: PMC4230799
PMID: 24965120  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Biol Chem. 2014 Aug 15;289(33):23200-8. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.587196. Epub 2014
Jun 24.

NADPH oxidase 4 induces cardiac arrhythmic phenotype in zebrafish.

Zhang Y(1), Shimizu H(2), Siu KL(1), Mahajan A(1), Chen JN(2), Cai H(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Departments of
Anesthesiology and Medicine, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen
School of Medicine at UCLA and.
(2)the Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, UCLA, Los
Angeles, California 90095.
(3)From the Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Departments of
Anesthesiology and Medicine, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen
School of Medicine at UCLA and hcai@mednet.ucla.edu.

Oxidative stress has been implicated in cardiac arrhythmia, although a causal
relationship remains undefined. We have recently demonstrated a marked
up-regulation of NADPH oxidase isoform 4 (NOX4) in patients with atrial
fibrillation, which is accompanied by overproduction of reactive oxygen species
(ROS). In this study, we investigated the impact on the cardiac phenotype of NOX4
overexpression in zebrafish. One-cell stage embryos were injected with NOX4 RNA
prior to video recording of a GFP-labeled (myl7:GFP zebrafish line) beating heart
in real time at 24-31 h post-fertilization. Intriguingly, NOX4 embryos developed 
cardiac arrhythmia that is characterized by irregular heartbeats. When
quantitatively analyzed by an established LQ-1 program, the NOX4 embryos
displayed much more variable beat-to-beat intervals (mean S.D. of beat-to-beat
intervals was 0.027 s/beat in control embryos versus 0.038 s/beat in NOX4
embryos). Both the phenotype and the increased ROS in NOX4 embryos were
attenuated by NOX4 morpholino co-injection, treatments of the embryos with
polyethylene glycol-conjugated superoxide dismutase, or NOX4 inhibitors
fulvene-5, 6-dimethylamino-fulvene, and proton sponge blue. Injection of
NOX4-P437H mutant RNA had no effect on the cardiac phenotype or ROS production.
In addition, phosphorylation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II
was increased in NOX4 embryos but diminished by polyethylene glycol-conjugated
superoxide dismutase, whereas its inhibitor KN93 or AIP abolished the arrhythmic 
phenotype. Taken together, our data for the first time uncover a novel pathway
that underlies the development of cardiac arrhythmia, namely NOX4 activation,
subsequent NOX4-specific NADPH-driven ROS production, and redox-sensitive CaMKII 
activation. These findings may ultimately lead to novel therapeutics targeting
cardiac arrhythmia.

© 2014 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.587196 
PMCID: PMC4132817
PMID: 24962575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Yao Xue Xue Bao. 2014 Mar;49(3):329-36.

[Effect of sequoyitol on expression of NOX4 and eNOS in aortas of type 2 diabetic
rats].

[Article in Chinese]

Li XW, Hao W, Liu Y, Yang JR.

The aim of the present study is to investigate the effects of sequoyitol (Seq) on
expression of eNOS and NOX4 in aortas of type 2 diabetic rats. Type 2 diabetic
rats induced by high fat and high sugar diet and low dose of streptozotocin (STZ,
35 mg x kg(-1)) and were administered Seq (12.5, 25 and 50 mg x kg(-1) x d(-1))
for 6 weeks. The fasting blood glucose (FBG) and body weight were tested.
Acetylcholine (Ach) induced endothelium-dependent relaxation and sodium
nitroprusside (SNP) induced endothelium-independent relaxation were measured in
aortas for estimating endothelial function. Aortic morphological change was
observed with HE staining. The level of serum insulin was measured by
radioimmunoassay. The total antioxidative capacity (T-AOC), malondialdehyde (MDA)
and NO levels in aortas were determined according to the manufacturer's
instructions. In addition, the expressions of eNOS and NOX4 in aortas were
measured by immunohistochemisty, real-time PCR or Western blotting. The results
showed that Seq significantly decreased FBG and insulin resistance, and improved 
aortic endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation function. The expressions of NOX4 and
MDA content were obviously decreased, while the expression of eNOS, the levels of
NO and T-AOC increased significantly in aortas of diabetic rats with Seq
treatment. In conclusion, Seq protects against aortic endothelial dysfunction of 
type 2 diabetic rats through down-regulating expression of NOX4 and up-regulating
eNOS expression.


PMID: 24961103  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 24;9(6):e100777. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100777.
eCollection 2014.

Long-term treatment with the sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor,
dapagliflozin, ameliorates glucose homeostasis and diabetic nephropathy in db/db 
mice.

Terami N(1), Ogawa D(2), Tachibana H(1), Hatanaka T(1), Wada J(1), Nakatsuka
A(1), Eguchi J(1), Horiguchi CS(1), Nishii N(1), Yamada H(3), Takei K(3), Makino 
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.
(2)Department of Medicine and Clinical Science, Okayama University Graduate
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan;
Department of Diabetic Nephropathy, Okayama University Graduate School of
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurochemistry, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.

Inhibition of sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT2) has been reported as a new
therapeutic strategy for treating diabetes. However, the effect of SGLT2
inhibitors on the kidney is unknown. In addition, whether SGLT2 inhibitors have
an anti-inflammatory or antioxidative stress effect is still unclear. In this
study, to resolve these issues, we evaluated the effects of the SGLT2 inhibitor, 
dapagliflozin, using a mouse model of type 2 diabetes and cultured proximal
tubular epithelial (mProx24) cells. Male db/db mice were administered 0.1 or 1.0 
mg/kg of dapagliflozin for 12 weeks. Body weight, blood pressure, blood glucose, 
hemoglobin A1c, albuminuria and creatinine clearance were measured. Mesangial
matrix accumulation and interstitial fibrosis in the kidney and pancreatic β-cell
mass were evaluated by histological analysis. Furthermore, gene expression of
inflammatory mediators, such as osteopontin, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1
and transforming growth factor-β, was evaluated by quantitative reverse
transcriptase-PCR. In addition, oxidative stress was evaluated by dihydroethidium
and NADPH oxidase 4 staining. Administration of 0.1 or 1.0 mg/kg of dapagliflozin
ameliorated hyperglycemia, β-cell damage and albuminuria in db/db mice. Serum
creatinine, creatinine clearance and blood pressure were not affected by
administration of dapagliflozin, but glomerular mesangial expansion and
interstitial fibrosis were suppressed in a dose-dependent manner. Dapagliflozin
treatment markedly decreased macrophage infiltration and the gene expression of
inflammation and oxidative stress in the kidney of db/db mice. Moreover,
dapagliflozin suppressed the high-glucose-induced gene expression of inflammatory
cytokines and oxidative stress in cultured mProx24 cells. These data suggest that
dapagliflozin ameliorates diabetic nephropathy by improving hyperglycemia along
with inhibiting inflammation and oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100777 
PMCID: PMC4069074
PMID: 24960177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2014 Sep;387(9):861-71. doi:
10.1007/s00210-014-1006-0. Epub 2014 Jun 20.

Protective effect of vitexin compound B-1 against hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced
injury in differentiated PC12 cells via NADPH oxidase inhibition.

Yang ZB(1), Tan B, Li TB, Lou Z, Jiang JL, Zhou YJ, Yang J, Luo XJ, Peng J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South
University, No. 110 Xiang-Ya Road, Changsha, 410078, China.

Vitexin compound B-1 (VB-1) is a novel member of the vitexins family isolated
from the seeds of the Chinese herb Vitex negundo. This study aims to investigate 
whether VB-1 is able to protect nerve cells against oxidative injury and whether 
the antioxidative effects of VB-1 occur through a mechanism involving the
inhibition of NADPH oxidase (NOX) in a manner of hypoxia-inducible factor 1α
(HIF-1α)-dependent. To establish a neuronal in vitro model of oxidative stress,
the differentiated PC12 cells were subjected to 5 h of hypoxia followed by 20 h
of reoxygenation (H/R). Three dosages of VB-1 (10(-8), 10(-7), and 10(-6) M) were
chosen to evaluate the effect of VB-1 on H/R-induced injury and the underlying
mechanisms. At the end of the experiments, culture mediums and cells were
collected for analysis of cellular apoptosis, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and
caspase 3/7-like activities, reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels,
4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and malondialdehye (MDA) contents, and HIF-1α and NOX
expression, respectively. Our results showed that cell injury (indicated by
apoptosis ratio, caspase 3/7-like activity, and LDH release), oxidative stress
(indicated by ROS production, 4-HNE, and MDA contents), NOX activity, and NOX
expression (NOX2 and NOX4 isoforms) were dramatically increased in PC12 cells
following H/R, which were attenuated in the presence of VB-1 at dosage of 10(-7) 
or 10(-6) M. There was no significant change in HIF-1α expression in all
experimental groups. These results provide evidence that VB-1 is able to protect 
the PC12 cells against H/R-induced injury through a mechanism involving the
suppression of NOX expression and subsequent reduction of ROS production. The
effect of VB-1 on H/R-induced NOX expression is independent on HIF-1α inhibition.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-014-1006-0 
PMID: 24947869  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2014 Aug;34(8):1704-15. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303848. Epub 2014 Jun 19.

NADPH oxidase 4 is expressed in pulmonary artery adventitia and contributes to
hypertensive vascular remodeling.

Barman SA(1), Chen F(1), Su Y(2), Dimitropoulou C(2), Wang Y(2), Catravas JD(2), 
Han W(2), Orfi L(2), Szantai-Kis C(2), Keri G(2), Szabadkai I(2), Barabutis N(2),
Rafikova O(2), Rafikov R(2), Black SM(2), Jonigk D(2), Giannis A(2), Asmis R(2), 
Stepp DW(2), Ramesh G(2), Fulton DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Forensic Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Jiangsu,
China (F.C.); Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology (S.A.B., Y.S., W.H.,
D.J.R.F.) and Vascular Biology Center (F.C., C.D., Y.W., J.D.S., N.B., O.R.,
R.R., S.M.B., D.W.S., G.R., D.J.R.F.), Georgia Regents University, Augusta;
Vichem Chemie, Ltd, Budapest, Hungary (L.O., C.S.-K., G.K., I.S.); Institute for 
Organic Chemistry, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany (A.G.); Institute for 
Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany (D.J.); Departments of
Clinical Laboratories and Biochemistry, University of Texas Health Science Center
at San Antonio (R.A.); and Pathobiochemical Research Group of Hungarian Academy
of Sciences (G.K.) and Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry (L.O.), Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary. sbarman@gru.edu dfulton@gru.edu fchen@gru.edu.
(2)From the Department of Forensic Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Jiangsu,
China (F.C.); Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology (S.A.B., Y.S., W.H.,
D.J.R.F.) and Vascular Biology Center (F.C., C.D., Y.W., J.D.S., N.B., O.R.,
R.R., S.M.B., D.W.S., G.R., D.J.R.F.), Georgia Regents University, Augusta;
Vichem Chemie, Ltd, Budapest, Hungary (L.O., C.S.-K., G.K., I.S.); Institute for 
Organic Chemistry, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany (A.G.); Institute for 
Pathology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany (D.J.); Departments of
Clinical Laboratories and Biochemistry, University of Texas Health Science Center
at San Antonio (R.A.); and Pathobiochemical Research Group of Hungarian Academy
of Sciences (G.K.) and Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry (L.O.), Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary.

OBJECTIVE: Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a progressive disease arising from
remodeling and narrowing of pulmonary arteries (PAs) resulting in high pulmonary 
blood pressure and ultimately right ventricular failure. Elevated production of
reactive oxygen species by NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) is associated with increased
pressure in PH. However, the cellular location of Nox4 and its contribution to
aberrant vascular remodeling in PH remains poorly understood. Therefore, we
sought to identify the vascular cells expressing Nox4 in PAs and determine the
functional relevance of Nox4 in PH.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: Elevated expression of Nox4 was detected in hypertensive
PAs from 3 rat PH models and human PH using qualititative real-time reverse
transcription polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and immunofluorescence. In
the vascular wall, Nox4 was detected in both endothelium and adventitia, and
perivascular staining was prominently increased in hypertensive lung sections,
colocalizing with cells expressing fibroblast and monocyte markers and matching
the adventitial location of reactive oxygen species production. Small-molecule
inhibitors of Nox4 reduced adventitial reactive oxygen species generation and
vascular remodeling as well as ameliorating right ventricular hypertrophy and
noninvasive indices of PA stiffness in monocrotaline-treated rats as determined
by morphometric analysis and high-resolution digital ultrasound. Nox4 inhibitors 
improved PH in both prevention and reversal protocols and reduced the expression 
of fibroblast markers in isolated PAs. In fibroblasts, Nox4 overexpression
stimulated migration and proliferation and was necessary for matrix gene
expression.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that Nox4 is prominently expressed in the
adventitia and contributes to altered fibroblast behavior, hypertensive vascular 
remodeling, and development of PH.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.114.303848 
PMCID: PMC4228789
PMID: 24947524  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Oncotarget. 2014 Jun 30;5(12):4392-405.

NOX4 promotes non-small cell lung cancer cell proliferation and metastasis
through positive feedback regulation of PI3K/Akt signaling.

Zhang C(1), Lan T, Hou J, Li J, Fang R, Yang Z, Zhang M, Liu J, Liu B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences of Xiyuan Hospital, China Academy of
Chinese Medical Sciences, Beijing 110300, China; Beijing Key Laboratory of
Pharmacology of Chinese Materia Medica, Beijing 110300, China.
(2)Department of Clinical pharmacy, School of Pharmacy, Guangdong Pharmaceutical 
University, Guangzhou 510006, China; Guangdong Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical
Bioactive Substances, Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong
510006, China.

NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) is deregulated in various cancers and involved in cancer
proliferation and metastasis. However, what the role of NOX4 plays during
malignant progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains unknown. Our 
results show that NOX4 was upregulated in NSCLC cell lines and samples from
patients, compared with controls; NOX4 protein levels were closely correlated
with clinical disease stage and survival time. Overexpression of NOX4 in A549 and
H460 NSCLC cells enhanced cell proliferation and invasion in vitro, and produced 
larger tumors, shorter survival time, and more lung metastasis in nude mice than 
control cells. On the contrary, NOX4 depletion inhibited NSCLC cell
aggressiveness. Inhibition of PI3K/Akt pathway could sufficiently block the
cellular effects of NOX4 overexpression in NSCLC cells both in vitro and in vivo.
Specifically, we demonstrated that PI3K/Akt pathway also positively regulated
NOX4 expression via NF-κB-mediated manner. Therefore, there existed a mutual
positive regulation between NOX4 and PI3K/Akt signaling in NSCLC cells, and NOX4 
was confirmed to functionally interplay with PI3K/Akt signaling to promote NSCLC 
cell proliferation and invasion. In conclusion, the positive feedback loop
between NOX4 and PI3K/Akt signaling contributes to NSCLC progression.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.2025 
PMCID: PMC4147332
PMID: 24946933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Redox Biol. 2014 Apr 15;2:642-50. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.04.004. eCollection
2014.

Nox4 NADPH oxidase contributes to smooth muscle cell phenotypes associated with
unstable atherosclerotic plaques.

Xu S(1), Chamseddine AH(1), Carrell S(1), Miller FJ Jr(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA 
; Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Plaque instability associated with acute coronary syndromes results in part from 
apoptosis and senescence of cells within the atherosclerotic (AS) lesion.
Increased cellular oxidative stress has been proposed to contribute to plaque
progression and changes in composition, leading to plaque instability. Our
objective was to examine the role of NADPH oxidase in smooth muscle cell (SMC)
phenotypes associated with an unstable plaque. Aortae were isolated from
pre-lesion (8 weeks of age) and post-lesion (35 weeks of age)
hypercholesterolemic mice (ApoE(-/-)/LDLR(-/-), AS), and age-matched normal
C57BL/6J mice. We observed an age-dependent increase in reactive oxygen species
(ROS) in aorta from AS mice, with evidence for elevated ROS prior to lesion
development. Whereas macrophage infiltration was restricted to the lesion,
oxidized lipids extended beyond the plaque and into the vessel wall. Consistent
with these findings, we observed dynamic changes in the expression of NADPH
oxidases in AS vessels. Specifically, Nox1 expression was increased early and
decreased with lesion progression, while induction of Nox4 was a late event. Nox2
and p22(phox) were elevated throughout lesion development. Similar to
observations in aortae, SMCs isolated from the lesion of AS aortae had decreased 
Nox1 and increased Nox4 levels as compared to SMCs from normal mice. AS SMCs
demonstrated increased generation of ROS, cell cycle arrest, evidence of
senescence, and increased susceptibility to apoptosis. Overexpression of Nox4 in 
normal SMCs recapitulated the phenotypes of the AS SMCs. We conclude that
increased expression of Nox4 in AS may drive SMC phenotypes that lead to the
plaque instability and rupture responsible for myocardial infarction and stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.04.004 
PMCID: PMC4052526
PMID: 24936437  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2015 Feb;1852(2):277-89. doi: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2014.06.005.
Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Netrin-1 improves post-injury cardiac function in vivo via DCC/NO-dependent
preservation of mitochondrial integrity, while attenuating autophagy.

Bouhidel JO(1), Wang P(1), Siu KL(1), Li H(1), Youn JY(1), Cai H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Departments of Anesthesiology 
and Medicine, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of
Medicine at University of California Los Angeles, 650 Charles E. Young Drive, Los
Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
(2)Divisions of Molecular Medicine and Cardiology, Departments of Anesthesiology 
and Medicine, Cardiovascular Research Laboratories, David Geffen School of
Medicine at University of California Los Angeles, 650 Charles E. Young Drive, Los
Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic address: hcai@mednet.ucla.edu.

Reperfusion injury of the heart is a severe complication of angioplasty treatment
of acute myocardial ischemia, for which no therapeutics are currently available. 
The present study aimed to identify whether and how a novel protein, netrin-1,
induces cardioprotection in vivo during ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Wild
type (WT) C57BL6/J mice were subjected to a 30 min coronary occlusion followed by
a 24h reperfusion with vehicle (normal saline), netrin-1, UO126 (MEK1/2
inhibitor), PTIO (nitric oxide/NO scavenger), netrin-1/UO126 or netrin-1/PTIO
intraventricularly. Some were injected of netrin-1 via tail vein. Netrin-1 at
5μg/kg induced a substantial reduction in infarct size (19.7 ± 5.0% from 41.3 ±
1.8% in the controls), and markedly improved cardiac function as measured by
ejection fraction and fractional shortening from echocardiography. Experiments
with mice deficient in netrin-1 receptor DCC (deleted in colorectal cancer,
DCC+/-), or reperfusion with netrin-1/UO126 or netrin-1/PTIO, attenuated the
protective effects of netrin-1, implicating intermediate roles of DCC, ERK1/2 and
NO. Netrin-1 induced phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and eNOS was abolished in
DCC+/-mice. Electron spin resonance (ESR) determination of NO production from
isolated left ventricles demonstrated that netrin-1 improves NO bioavailability, 
which was attenuated by UO126 or in DCC+/-mice, suggesting upstream roles of DCC 
and ERK1/2 in NO production. Netrin-1 further reduced mitochondrial swelling and 
mitochondrial superoxide production, which was absent when co-treated with PTIO
or UO126, or in DCC+/-mice, indicating critical roles of DCC, ERK1/2 and NO in
preserving mitochondrial integrity. In a permanent coronary ligation model of
myocardial infarction (MI) to assess post-MI remodeling, netrin-1 abolished the
marked increase in autophagy. In summary, our data demonstrate robust
cardioprotective effect of netrin-1 in vivo, as shown by reduced infarct size and
improved cardiac function. Mechanistically, this protection is mediated by
netrin-1 receptor DCC, and NO dependent preservation of mitochondria. This work
clearly establishes a therapeutic potential of netrin-1 for acute treatment of
MI, perhaps also for chronic post-MI remodeling. This article is part of a
Special Issue entitled: Autophagy and protein quality control in cardiometabolic 
diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2014.06.005 
PMCID: PMC4262720
PMID: 24928309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Nutr Biochem. 2014 Aug;25(8):851-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.03.016. Epub
2014 Apr 13.

Effects of Saskatoon berry powder on monocyte adhesion to vascular wall of leptin
receptor-deficient diabetic mice.

Zhao R(1), Le K(2), Li W(3), Ren S(4), Moghadasian MH(2), Beta T(3), Shen GX(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Physiology; Xiangya Boai Rehabilitation
Hospital, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Human Nutritional Sciences.
(3)Department of Food Sciences, University of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Physiology.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine and Physiology. Electronic address:
garry.she@med.umanitoba.ca.

HYPOTHESIS: Atherosclerotic cardiovascular complications are the leading cause of
death in diabetic patients. Monocyte adhesion is an early event for
atherogenesis. Previous studies demonstrated that dark-skin berries had
cardiovascular protective effects. We hypothesize that Saskatoon berry (SB)
powder may reduce monocyte adhesion in leptin receptor-deficient (db/db) diabetic
mice.
METHODS: Wild-type and db/db mice were fed with chow or supplemented with SB
powder. Anthocyanins in SB powder were identified using mass spectrometry. Mouse 
monocytes were incubated with mouse aorta. Monocyte adhesion was counted under
microscopy. Inflammatory or metabolic markers in blood or tissue were analyzed
using immunological or biochemical methods.
RESULTS: SB powder significantly reduced monocyte adhesion to aorta from diabetic
db/db mice compared to regular chow. The increased monocyte adhesion to aorta was
normalized in db/db mice treated with ≥5% of SB powder for 4 weeks. Increased
contents of Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NADPH)
oxidase-4, heat shock factor-1, monocyte chemotactic protein (MCP)-1,
intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1, P-selectin, tumor necrosis factor-α,
plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI)-1 and urokinase plasminogen activator in
aorta or heart apex, elevated plasma PAI-1 and MCP-1 were detected in db/db mice 
on chow compared to wild-type mice on the same diet; 5% SB powder inhibited the
increases of inflammatory, fibrinolytic or stress regulators in aorta or heart
apex of db/db mice. Monocyte adhesion positively correlated with blood glucose,
cholesterol, body weight, heart MCP-1, PAI-1 or ICAM-1.
CONCLUSION: The findings suggest that SB powder attenuated monocyte adhesion to
aorta of db/db mice, which was potentially mediated through inhibiting the
inflammatory, stress and/or fibrinolyic regulators.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.03.016 
PMID: 24925752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Pflugers Arch. 2015 Apr;467(4):727-35. doi: 10.1007/s00424-014-1548-5. Epub 2014 
Jun 14.

Nox1 upregulates the function of vascular T-type calcium channels following
chronic nitric oxide deficit.

Howitt L(1), Matthaei KI, Drummond GR, Hill CE.

Author information: 
(1)Eccles Institute of Neuroscience, John Curtin School of Medical Research,
Australian National University, Building 131, Garran Road, Acton, Canberra, ACT, 
2601, Australia.

Cardiovascular disease is characterised by reduced nitric oxide bioavailability
resulting from oxidative stress. Our previous studies have shown that nitric
oxide deficit per se increases the contribution of T-type calcium channels to
vascular tone through increased superoxide from NADPH oxidase (Nox). The aim of
the present study was therefore to identify the Nox isoform responsible for
modulating T-type channel function, as T-type channels are implicated in several 
pathophysiological conditions involving oxidative stress. We evaluated T-channel 
function in skeletal muscle arterioles in vivo, using a novel T-channel blocker, 
TTA-A2 (3 μmol/L), which demonstrated no cross reactivity with L-type channels.
Wild-type and Nox2 knockout (Nox2ko) mice were treated with the nitric oxide
synthase inhibitor L-NAME (40 mg/kg/day) for 2 weeks. L-NAME treatment
significantly increased systolic blood pressure and the contribution of T-type
calcium channels to arteriolar tone in wild-type mice, and this was not prevented
by Nox2 deletion. In Nox2ko mice, pharmacological inhibition of Nox1 (10 μmol/L
ML171), Nox4 (10 μmol/L VAS2870) and Nox4-derived hydrogen peroxide (500 U/mL
catalase) significantly reduced the effect of chronic nitric oxide inhibition on 
T-type channel function. In contrast, in wild-type mice, ML171 and VAS2870, but
not catalase, reduced the contribution of T-type channels to vascular tone,
suggesting a role for Nox1 and non-selective actions of VAS2870. We conclude that
Nox1, but not Nox2 or Nox4, is responsible for the upregulation of T-type calcium
channels elicited by chronic nitric oxide deficit. These data point to an
important role for this isoform in increasing T-type channel function during
oxidative stress.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-014-1548-5 
PMID: 24923576  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 9;9(6):e99481. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099481. eCollection 
2014.

Redox modulation of FAK controls melanoma survival--role of NOX4.

Ribeiro-Pereira C(1), Moraes JA(1), Souza Mde J(1), Laurindo FR(2), Arruda MA(3),
Barja-Fidalgo C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Cell Biology,
IBRAG, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Vascular Biology, Instituto do Coração, Universidade de São
Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Cell Biology,
IBRAG, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil;
Vice-Diretoria de Ensino, Pesquisa e Inovação, Farmanguinhos, Fiocruz, Rio de
Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

Studies have demonstrated that reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by NADPH
oxidase are essential for melanoma proliferation and survival. However, the
mechanisms by which NADPH oxidase regulates these effects are still unclear. In
this work, we investigate the role of NADPH oxidase-derived ROS in the signaling 
events that coordinate melanoma cell survival. Using the highly metastatic human 
melanoma cell line MV3, we observed that pharmacological NADPH oxidase inhibition
reduced melanoma viability and induced dramatic cellular shape changes. These
effects were accompanied by actin cytoskeleton rearrangement, diminished FAKY397 
phosphorylation, and decrease of FAK-actin and FAK-cSrc association, indicating
disassembly of focal adhesion processes, a phenomenon that often results in
anoikis. Accordingly, NADPH oxidase inhibition also enhanced hypodiploid DNA
content, and caspase-3 activation, suggesting activation of the apoptotic
machinery. NOX4 is likely to be involved in these effects, since silencing of
NOX4 significantly inhibited basal ROS production, reduced FAKY397
phosphorylation and decreased tumor cell viability. Altogether, the results
suggest that intracellular ROS generated by the NADPH oxidase, most likely NOX4, 
transmits cell survival signals on melanoma cells through the FAK pathway,
maintaining adhesion contacts and cell viability.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099481 
PMCID: PMC4050056
PMID: 24911159  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 4;9(6):e97315. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097315. eCollection 
2014.

Hydrogen sulfide releasing aspirin, ACS14, attenuates high glucose-induced
increased methylglyoxal and oxidative stress in cultured vascular smooth muscle
cells.

Huang Q(1), Sparatore A(2), Del Soldato P(3), Wu L(4), Desai K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan,
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada; King's Lab, School of Pharmacy, Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienze Farmaceutiche, Università degli Studi di Milano,
Milan, Italy.
(3)CTG Pharma, Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Health Sciences, Lakehead University, Thunder Bay, Ontario,
Canada; Thunder Bay Regional Research Institute, Thunder Bay, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of Saskatchewan,
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.

Hydrogen sulfide is a gasotransmitter with vasodilatory and anti-inflammatory
properties. Aspirin is an irreversible cyclooxygenase inhibitor anti-inflammatory
drug. ACS14 is a novel synthetic hydrogen sulfide releasing aspirin which
inhibits cyclooxygenase and has antioxidant effects. Methylglyoxal is a
chemically active metabolite of glucose and fructose, and a major precursor of
advanced glycation end products formation. Methylglyoxal is harmful when produced
in excess. Plasma methylglyoxal levels are significantly elevated in diabetic
patients. Our aim was to investigate the effects of ACS14 on methylglyoxal levels
in cultured rat aortic vascular smooth muscle cells. We used cultured rat aortic 
vascular smooth muscle cells for the study. Methylglyoxal was measured by HPLC
after derivatization, and nitrite+nitrate with an assay kit. Western blotting was
used to determine NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) and inducible nitric oxide synthase
(iNOS) protein expression. Dicholorofluorescein assay was used to measure
oxidative stress. ACS14 significantly attenuated elevation of intracellular
methylglyoxal levels caused by incubating cultured vascular smooth muscle cells
with methylglyoxal (30 µM) and high glucose (25 mM). ACS14, but not aspirin,
caused a significant attenuation of increase in nitrite+nitrate levels caused by 
methylglyoxal or high glucose. ACS14, aspirin, and sodium hydrogen sulfide (NaHS,
a hydrogen sulfide donor), all attenuated the increase in oxidative stress caused
by methylglyoxal and high glucose in cultured cells. ACS14 prevented the increase
in NOX4 expression caused by incubating the cultured VSMCs with MG (30 µM).
ACS14, aspirin and NaHS attenuated the increase in iNOS expression caused by high
glucose (25 mM). In conclusion, ACS14 has the novel ability to attenuate an
increase in methylglyoxal levels which in turn can reduce oxidative stress,
decrease the formation of advanced glycation end products and prevent many of the
known deleterious effects of elevated methylglyoxal. Thus, ACS14 has the
potential to be especially beneficial for diabetic patients pending further in
vivo studies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0097315 
PMCID: PMC4045575
PMID: 24896242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 2;9(6):e98047. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098047. eCollection 
2014.

Tongxinluo protects against pressure overload-induced heart failure in mice
involving VEGF/Akt/eNOS pathway activation.

Wang B(1), Yang Q(2), Bai WW(3), Xing YF(1), Lu XT(3), Sun YY(3), Zhao YX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Qilu Hospital of Shandong
University, Jinan, China.
(2)Institute of Pathogen Biology, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and Function Research, Qilu
Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, China.

BACKGROUND: It has been demonstrated that Tongxinluo (TXL), a traditional Chinese
medicine compound, improves ischemic heart disease in animal models via vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS).
The present study aimed to investigate whether TXL protects against pressure
overload-induced heart failure in mice and explore the possible mechanism of
action.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Transverse aortic constriction (TAC) surgery was performed
in mice to induce heart failure. Cardiac function was evaluated by
echocardiography. Myocardial pathology was detected using hematoxylin and eosin
or Masson trichrome staining. We investigated cardiomyocyte ultrastructure using 
transmission electron microscopy. Angiogenesis and oxidative stress levels were
determined using CD31 and 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine immunostaining and
malondialdehyde assay, respectively. Fetal gene expression was measured using
real-time PCR. Protein expression of VEGF, phosphorylated (p)-VEGF receptor 2
(VEGFR2), p-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K), p-Akt, p-eNOS, heme oxygenase-1
(HO-1), and NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) were measured with western blotting.
Twelve-week low- and high-dose TXL treatment following TAC improved cardiac
systolic and diastolic function and ameliorated left ventricular hypertrophy,
fibrosis, and myocardial ultrastructure derangement. Importantly, TXL increased
myocardial capillary density significantly and attenuated oxidative stress injury
in failing hearts. Moreover, TXL upregulated cardiac nitrite content and the
protein expression of VEGF, p-VEGFR2, p-PI3K, p-Akt, p-eNOS, and HO-1, but
decreased Nox4 expression in mouse heart following TAC.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that TXL protects against pressure
overload-induced heart failure in mice. Activation of the VEGF/Akt/eNOS signaling
pathway might be involved in TXL improvement of the failing heart.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098047 
PMCID: PMC4041651
PMID: 24887083  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2014 Jul;24(5):202-5. doi: 10.1016/j.tcm.2014.03.003. Epub
2014 Apr 1.

Physiological and pathological functions of NADPH oxidases during myocardial
ischemia-reperfusion.

Matsushima S(1), Tsutsui H(2), Sadoshima J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Cell Biology and Molecular
Medicine, Rutgers-New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ; Department of
Cardiovascular Medicine, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine,
Sapporo, Japan.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Cell Biology and Molecular
Medicine, Rutgers-New Jersey Medical School, Newark, NJ. Electronic address:
sadoshju@njms.rutgers.edu.

Oxidative stress, the presence of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in excess of the 
antioxidant capacity in the heart induces myocardial damage, accumulation of
which leads to ischemic heart disease and heart failure. NADPH oxidase (Nox) 2
and 4 are the major sources of O2- and H2O2 in the heart and play a crucial role 
in the regulation of growth and death in cardiomyocytes. Both Nox2 and Nox4 are
upregulated in response to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R), thereby contributing to
ROS production and consequent myocardial injury. Suppression of either one of
them can reduce ROS and I/R injury in the heart. Importantly, however, a minimum 
level of ROS production by either Nox2 or Nox4 is essential for the activation of
HIF-1α and inhibition of PPARα during I/R, such that combined suppression of both
Nox2 and Nox4 exacerbates myocardial I/R injury. Thus, either excessive
activation or suppression of Noxs below physiological levels can induce cardiac
injury. Here we discuss both detrimental and salutary functions of Nox isoforms
during myocardial I/R.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tcm.2014.03.003 
PMCID: PMC4119873
PMID: 24880746  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2014 Jul 15;307(2):F159-71. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00546.2013. Epub 2014 May 28.

RhoA/Rho kinase mediates TGF-β1-induced kidney myofibroblast activation through
Poldip2/Nox4-derived reactive oxygen species.

Manickam N(1), Patel M(1), Griendling KK(2), Gorin Y(1), Barnes JL(3).

Author information: 
(1)The Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, The University of Texas
Health Science Center, San Antonio, Texas; and.
(2)The Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)The Medical Research Service, Audie Murphy Memorial Veterans Administration
Hospital, South Texas Veterans Health Care System, San Antonio, Texas; The
Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, The University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, Texas; and barnesj@uthscsa.edu.

Comment in
    Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2014 Aug 15;307(4):F385-7.

The small G proteins Rac1 and RhoA regulate actin cytoskeleton, cell shape,
adhesion, migration, and proliferation. Recent studies in our laboratory have
shown that NADPH oxidase Nox4-derived ROS are involved in transforming growth
factor (TGF)-β1-induced rat kidney myofibroblast differentiation assessed by the 
acquisition of an α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA) phenotype and expression of an
alternatively spliced fibronectin variant (Fn-EIIIA). Rac1 and RhoA are essential
in signaling by some Nox homologs, but their role as effectors of Nox4 in kidney 
myofibroblast differentiation is not known. In the present study, we explored a
link among Rac1 and RhoA and Nox4-dependent ROS generation in TGF-β1-induced
kidney myofibroblast activation. TGF-β1 stimulated an increase in Nox4 protein
expression, NADPH oxidase activity, and abundant α-SMA and Fn-EIIIA expression.
RhoA but not Rac1 was involved in TGF-β1 induction of Nox4 signaling of kidney
myofibroblast activation. TGF-β1 stimulated active RhoA-GTP and increased Rho
kinase (ROCK). Inhibition of RhoA with small interfering RNA and ROCK using
Y-27632 significantly reduced TGF-β1-induced stimulation of Nox4 protein, NADPH
oxidase activity, and α-SMA and Fn-EIIIA expression. Treatment with
diphenyleneiodonium, an inhibitor of NADPH oxidase, did not decrease RhoA
activation but inhibited TGF-β1-induced α-SMA and Fn-EIIIA expression, indicating
that RhoA is upstream of ROS generation. RhoA/ROCK also regulated polymerase
(DNA-directed) δ-interacting protein 2 (Poldip2), a newly discovered Nox4
enhancer protein. Collectively, these data indicate that RhoA/ROCK is upstream of
Poldip2-dependent Nox4 regulation and ROS production and induces redox signaling 
of kidney myofibroblast activation and may broader implications in the
pathophysiology of renal fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00546.2013 
PMCID: PMC4101629
PMID: 24872317  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2014;2014:581732. doi: 10.1155/2014/581732. Epub 2014 Apr
27.

Lentivirus-mediated Nox4 shRNA invasion and angiogenesis and enhances
radiosensitivity in human glioblastoma.

Li Y(1), Han N(2), Yin T(2), Huang L(2), Liu S(2), Liu D(2), Xie C(1), Zhang
M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College,
Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan 430030, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science & Technology, Jiefang Road 1095, Wuhan 430030, China.

Radioresistance remains a significant therapeutic obstacle in glioblastoma.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are associated with multiple cellular functions
such as cell proliferation and apoptosis. Nox4 NADPH oxidase is abundantly
expressed and has proven to be a major source of ROS production in glioblastoma. 
Here we investigated the effects of Nox4 on GBM tumor cell invasion,
angiogenesis, and radiosensitivity. A lentiviral shRNA vector was utilized to
stably knockdown Nox4 in U87MG and U251 glioblastoma cells. ROS production was
measured by flow cytometry using the fluorescent probe DCFH-DA. Radiosensitivity 
was evaluated by clonogenic assay and survival curve was generated. Cell
proliferation activity was assessed by a cell counting proliferation assay and
invasion/migration potential by Matrigel invasion assay. Tube-like structure
formation assay was used to evaluate angiogenesis ability in vitro and VEGF
expression was assessed by MTT assay. Nox4 knockdown reduced ROS production
significantly and suppressed glioblastoma cells proliferation and invasion and
tumor associated angiogenesis and increased their radiosensitivity in vitro. Our 
results indicate that Nox4 may play a crucial role in tumor invasion,
angiogenesis, and radioresistance in glioblastoma. Inhibition of Nox4 by
lentivirus-mediated shRNA could be a strategy to overcome radioresistance and
then improve its therapeutic efficacy for glioblastoma.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/581732 
PMCID: PMC4020159
PMID: 24868315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Pineal Res. 2014 Aug;57(1):110-9. doi: 10.1111/jpi.12148. Epub 2014 Jun 16.

Alterations in the time course of expression of the Nox family in the brain in a 
rat experimental cerebral ischemia and reperfusion model: effects of melatonin.

Li H(1), Wang Y, Feng D, Liu Y, Xu M, Gao A, Tian F, Zhang L, Cui Y, Wang Z, Chen
G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery & Brain and Nerve Research Laboratory, The First
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China.

Ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury induces the generation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS), which results in a poor prognosis for ischemic stroke patients.
This study was designed to evaluate the time course of expression of the Nox
family, a major source of ROS, and whether melatonin, a potent scavenger of ROS, 
influences these parameters in a rat model of cerebral I/R caused by middle
cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). After 2-hr occlusion, the filament was
withdrawn to allow reperfusion. At 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, and 48 hr after reperfusion, 
brain tissue samples were obtained for assays. Among the Nox family, the mRNA and
protein levels of Nox2 and Nox4 were increased both in the ischemic hemisphere
and contralateral counterpart in the experimental I/R rats at 0 hr after
reperfusion, peaked at 3 hr, and then returned to the basal level at 24 hr.
Double-immunofluorescence staining further confirmed the expressions of Nox2 and 
Nox4 in three major types of brain cells, including neurons, astrocytes, and
endothelial cells. In addition, melatonin (5 mg/kg) or its vehicle was injected
intraperitoneally at 0.5 hr before MCAO. Compared with I/R + vehicle group,
melatonin pretreatment diminished the increased expression of Nox2 and Nox4,
reduced ROS levels, and inhibited cell apoptosis. Our findings suggested that the
inhibition of Nox2 and Nox4 expressions by melatonin may essentially contribute
to its antioxidant and anti-apoptotic effects during brain I/R.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpi.12148 
PMID: 24867613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Aug;73:201-13. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.04.029. Epub 2014 May 14.

Caveolin-1 is a negative regulator of NADPH oxidase-derived reactive oxygen
species.

Chen F(1), Barman S(2), Yu Y(3), Haigh S(4), Wang Y(4), Black SM, Rafikov R, Dou 
H, Bagi Z(4), Han W(2), Su Y(2), Fulton DJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Forensic Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210029, China; Vascular Biology Center and Georgia Regents University, Augusta,
GA 30912, USA. Electronic address: fchen@gru.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA.
(3)Department of Forensic Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210029, China; Vascular Biology Center and Georgia Regents University, Augusta,
GA 30912, USA.
(4)Vascular Biology Center and Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912,
USA.
(5)Vascular Biology Center and Georgia Regents University, Augusta, GA 30912,
USA; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Georgia Regents University,
Augusta, GA 30912, USA. Electronic address: dfulton@gru.edu.

Erratum in
    Free Radic Biol Med. 2015 Apr;81:184. Black, Stephen M [added]; Rafikov, Ruslan
[added].

Changes in the expression and function of caveolin-1 (Cav-1) have been proposed
as a pathogenic mechanism underlying many cardiovascular diseases. Cav-1 binds to
and regulates the activity of numerous signaling proteins via interactions with
its scaffolding domain. In endothelial cells, Cav-1 has been shown to reduce
reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, but whether Cav-1 regulates the
activity of NADPH oxidases (Noxes), a major source of cellular ROS, has not yet
been shown. Herein, we show that Cav-1 is primarily expressed in the endothelium 
and adventitia of pulmonary arteries (PAs) and that Cav-1 expression is reduced
in isolated PAs from multiple models of pulmonary artery hypertension (PH).
Reduced Cav-1 expression correlates with increased ROS production in the
adventitia of hypertensive PA. In vitro experiments revealed a significant
ability of Cav-1 and its scaffolding domain to inhibit Nox1-5 activity and it was
also found that Cav-1 binds to Nox5 and Nox2 but not Nox4. In addition to
posttranslational actions, in primary cells, Cav-1 represses the mRNA and protein
expression of Nox2 and Nox4 through inhibition of the NF-κB pathway. Last, in a
mouse hypoxia model, the genetic ablation of Cav-1 increased the expression of
Nox2 and Nox4 and exacerbated PH. Together, these results suggest that Cav-1 is a
negative regulator of Nox function via two distinct mechanisms, acutely through
direct binding and chronically through alteration of expression levels.
Accordingly, the loss of Cav-1 expression in cardiovascular diseases such as PH
may account for the increased Nox activity and greater production of ROS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.04.029 
PMCID: PMC4228786
PMID: 24835767  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Biol Chem. 2014 Jun 27;289(26):18270-8. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.562249. Epub 2014
May 15.

Negative regulation of NADPH oxidase 4 by hydrogen peroxide-inducible clone 5
(Hic-5) protein.

Desai LP(1), Zhou Y(1), Estrada AV(1), Ding Q(1), Cheng G(1), Collawn JF(2),
Thannickal VJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)From the Divisions of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine and.
(2)Cell, Developmental and Integrative Biology, University of Alabama,
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294.
(3)From the Divisions of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine and
vjthan@uab.edu.

Hydrogen peroxide-inducible clone 5 (Hic-5) is a focal adhesion adaptor protein
induced by the profibrotic cytokine TGF-β1. We have demonstrated previously that 
TGF-β1 induces myofibroblast differentiation and lung fibrosis by activation of
the reactive oxygen species-generating enzyme NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4). Here we
investigated a potential role for Hic-5 in regulating Nox4, myofibroblast
differentiation, and senescence. In normal human diploid fibroblasts, TGF-β1
induces Hic-5 expression in a delayed manner relative to the induction of Nox4
and myofibroblast differentiation. Hic-5 silencing induced constitutive Nox4
expression and enhanced TGF-β1-inducible Nox4 levels. The induction of
constitutive Nox4 protein in Hic-5-silenced cells was independent of
transcription and translation and controlled by the ubiquitin-proteasomal system.
Hic-5 associates with the ubiquitin ligase Cbl-c and the ubiquitin-binding
protein heat shock protein 27 (HSP27). The interaction of these proteins is
required for the ubiquitination of Nox4 and for maintaining low basal levels of
this reactive oxygen species-generating enzyme. Our model suggests that
TGF-β1-induced Hic-5 functions as a negative feedback mechanism to limit
myofibroblast differentiation and senescence by promoting the
ubiquitin-proteasomal system-mediated degradation of Nox4. Together, these
studies indicate that endogenous Hic-5 suppresses senescence and profibrotic
activities of myofibroblasts by down-regulating Nox4 protein expression.
Additionally, these are the first studies, to our knowledge, to demonstrate
posttranslational regulation of Nox4.

© 2014 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.562249 
PMCID: PMC4140251
PMID: 24831009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. PLoS One. 2014 May 9;9(5):e96377. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096377. eCollection 
2014.

Tacrolimus increases Nox4 expression in human renal fibroblasts and induces
fibrosis-related genes by aberrant TGF-beta receptor signalling.

Kern G(1), Mair SM(2), Noppert SJ(1), Jennings P(3), Schramek H(1), Rudnicki
M(1), Mueller GA(4), Mayer G(1), Koppelstaetter C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nephrology and Hypertension, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Clinical Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Innsbruck Medical University,
Innsbruck, Austria.
(3)Physiology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.
(4)Rheumatology and Nephrology, University of Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.

Chronic nephrotoxicity of immunosuppressives is one of the main limiting factors 
in the long-term outcome of kidney transplants, leading to tissue fibrosis and
ultimate organ failure. The cytokine TGF-β is considered a key factor in this
process. In the human renal fibroblast cell line TK-173, the macrolide
calcineurin inhibitor tacrolimus (FK-506) induced TGF-β-like effects, manifested 
by increased expression of NAD(P)H-oxidase 4 (Nox4), transgelin, tropomyosin 1,
and procollagen α1(V) mRNA after three days. The macrolide mTOR inhibitor
rapamycin had similar effects, while cyclosporine A did not induce
fibrose-related genes. Concentration dependence curves were sigmoid, where mRNA
expression was induced already at low nanomolar levels of tacrolimus, and reached
saturation at 100-300 nM. The effects were independent of extracellular TGF-β as 
confirmed by the use of neutralizing antibodies, and thus most likely caused by
aberrant TGF-β receptor signaling, where binding of tacrolimus to the regulatory 
FKBP12 protein results in a "leaky" TGF-β receptor. The myofibroblast marker
α-smooth muscle actin was neither induced by tacrolimus nor by TGF-β1, indicating
an incomplete activation of TK-173 fibroblasts under culture conditions.
Tacrolimus- and TGF-β1-induced Nox4 protein upregulation was confirmed by Western
blotting, and was accompanied by a rise in intracellular H2O2 concentration.
Si-RNA mediated knock-down of Nox4 expression prevented up-regulation of
procollagen α1(V) mRNA in tacrolimus-treated cells, but induced procollagen α1(V)
expression in control cells. Nox4 knock-down had no significant effect on the
other genes tested. TGF-β is a key molecule in fibrosis, and the constant
activation of aberrant receptor signaling by tacrolimus might contribute to the
long-term development of interstitial kidney fibrosis in immunosuppressed
patients. Nox4 levels possibly play a regulatory role in these processes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096377 
PMCID: PMC4015940
PMID: 24816588  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Jul;72:267-84. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.04.020. Epub 2014 May 6.

Oxidative stress and hepatic Nox proteins in chronic hepatitis C and
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Choi J(1), Corder NL(2), Koduru B(2), Wang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Natural Sciences, University of California at Merced, Merced, CA
95343, USA. Electronic address: jchoi@ucmerced.edu.
(2)School of Natural Sciences, University of California at Merced, Merced, CA
95343, USA.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common liver cancer and a leading
cause of cancer-related mortality in the world. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a
major etiologic agent of HCC. A majority of HCV infections lead to chronic
infection that can progress to cirrhosis and, eventually, HCC and liver failure. 
A common pathogenic feature present in HCV infection, and other conditions
leading to HCC, is oxidative stress. HCV directly increases superoxide and H2O2
formation in hepatocytes by elevating Nox protein expression and sensitizing
mitochondria to reactive oxygen species generation while decreasing glutathione. 
Nitric oxide synthesis and hepatic iron are also elevated. Furthermore,
activation of phagocytic NADPH oxidase (Nox) 2 of host immune cells is likely to 
exacerbate oxidative stress in HCV-infected patients. Key mechanisms of HCC
include genome instability, epigenetic regulation, inflammation with chronic
tissue injury and sustained cell proliferation, and modulation of cell growth and
death. Oxidative stress, or Nox proteins, plays various roles in these
mechanisms. Nox proteins also function in hepatic fibrosis, which commonly
precedes HCC, and Nox4 elevation by HCV is mediated by transforming growth factor
β. This review summarizes mechanisms of oncogenesis by HCV, highlighting the
roles of oxidative stress and hepatic Nox enzymes in HCC.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.04.020 
PMCID: PMC4099059
PMID: 24816297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Neuroscience. 2014 Jul 25;273:39-51. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.04.060.
Epub 2014 May 9.

Activation of the ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas pathway reduces oxygen-glucose
deprivation-induced tissue swelling, ROS production, and cell death in mouse
brain with angiotensin II overproduction.

Zheng J(1), Li G(2), Chen S(3), Bihl J(3), Buck J(3), Zhu Y(4), Xia H(5),
Lazartigues E(5), Chen Y(6), Olson JE(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Wright State University, Boonshoft 
School of Medicine, Dayton, OH, United States; Department of Neurology, Second
Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical University, China.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, Wright State University, Boonshoft School of
Medicine, Dayton, OH, United States.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Wright State University, Boonshoft 
School of Medicine, Dayton, OH, United States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Harbin Medical
University, China.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center,
New Orleans, LA, United States.
(6)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Wright State University, Boonshoft 
School of Medicine, Dayton, OH, United States. Electronic address:
yanfang.chen@wright.edu.
(7)Department of Emergency Medicine, Wright State University, Boonshoft School of
Medicine, Dayton, OH, United States; Department of Neuroscience, Cell Biology and
Physiology, Wright State University, Boonshoft School of Medicine, Dayton, OH,
United States. Electronic address: james.olson@wright.edu.

We previously demonstrated that mice which overexpress human renin and
angiotensinogen (R+A+) show enhanced cerebral damage in both in vivo and in vitro
experimental ischemia models. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) counteracts 
the effects of angiotensin (Ang-II) by transforming it into Ang-(1-7), thus
reducing the ligand for the AT1 receptor and increasing stimulation of the Mas
receptor. Triple transgenic mice, SARA, which specifically overexpress ACE2 in
neurons of R+A+ mice were used to study the role of ACE2 in ischemic stroke using
oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) of brain slices as an in vitro model. We
examined tissue swelling, the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and
cell death in the cerebral cortex (CX) and the hippocampal CA1 region during OGD.
Expression levels of NADPH oxidase (Nox) isoforms, Nox2 and Nox4 were measured
using western blots. Results show that SARA mice and R+A+ mice treated with the
Mas receptor agonist Ang-(1-7) had less swelling, cell death, and ROS production 
in CX and CA1 areas compared to those in R+A+ animals. Treatment of slices from
SARA mice with the Mas antagonist A779 eliminated this protection. Finally,
western blots revealed less Nox2 and Nox4 expression in SARA mice compared with
R+A+ mice both before and after OGD. We suggest that reduced brain swelling and
cell death observed in SARA animals exposed to OGD result from diminished ROS
production coupled with lower expression of Nox isoforms. Thus, the
ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas receptor pathway plays a protective role in brain ischemic
damage by counteracting the detrimental effects of Ang-II-induced ROS production.

Copyright © 2014 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2014.04.060 
PMCID: PMC4159741
PMID: 24814023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Biomaterials. 2014 Aug;35(24):6553-62. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2014.04.049.
Epub 2014 May 6.

Carbon monoxide-bound hemoglobin-vesicles for the treatment of bleomycin-induced 
pulmonary fibrosis.

Nagao S(1), Taguchi K(2), Sakai H(3), Tanaka R(1), Horinouchi H(4), Watanabe
H(5), Kobayashi K(4), Otagiri M(6), Maruyama T(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sojo University, Kumamoto 860-0082, Japan.
(3)Department of Chemistry, Nara Medical University, Kashihara 634-8521, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, Keio University, Tokyo 160-8582,
Japan.
(5)Department of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan; Center for Clinical Pharmaceutical
Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan.
(6)Department of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan; Faculty of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, Sojo University, Kumamoto 860-0082, Japan; DDS Research Institute, Sojo
University, Kumamoto 860-0082, Japan. Electronic address:
otagirim@ph.sojo-u.ac.jp.
(7)Department of Biopharmaceutics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan; Center for Clinical Pharmaceutical
Sciences, School of Pharmacy, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto 862-0973, Japan.
Electronic address: tomaru@gpo.kumamoto-u.ac.jp.

Carbon monoxide (CO) has potent anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant effects. We
report herein on the preparation of a nanotechnology-based CO donor, CO-bound
hemoglobin-vesicles (CO-HbV). We hypothesized that CO-HbV could have a
therapeutic effect on idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), an incurable lung
fibrosis, that is thought to involve inflammation and the production of reactive 
oxygen species (ROS). Pulmonary fibril formation and respiratory function were
quantitatively evaluated by measuring hydroxyproline levels and forced vital
capacity, respectively, using a bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis mice model. 
CO-HbV suppressed the progression of pulmonary fibril formation and improved
respiratory function compared to saline and HbV. The suppressive effect of CO-HbV
on pulmonary fibrosis can be attributed to a decrease in ROS generation by
inflammatory cells, NADPH oxidase 4 and the production of inflammatory cells,
cytokines and transforming growth factor-β in the lung. This is the first
demonstration of the inhibitory effect of CO-HbV on the progression of pulmonary 
fibrosis via the anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory effects of CO in the
bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis mice model. CO-HbV has the potential for use
in the treatment of, not only IPF, but also a variety of other ROS and
inflammation-related disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2014.04.049 
PMID: 24811261  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. PLoS One. 2014 May 5;9(5):e96657. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096657. eCollection 
2014.

Poldip2 knockout results in perinatal lethality, reduced cellular growth and
increased autophagy of mouse embryonic fibroblasts.

Brown DI(1), Lassègue B(1), Lee M(1), Zafari R(1), Long JS(1), Saavedra HI(2),
Griendling KK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine,
Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.

Polymerase-δ interacting protein 2 (Poldip2) is an understudied protein,
originally described as a binding partner of polymerase delta and proliferating
cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Numerous roles for Poldip2 have been proposed,
including mitochondrial elongation, DNA replication/repair and ROS production via
Nox4. In this study, we have identified a novel role for Poldip2 in regulating
the cell cycle. We used a Poldip2 gene-trap mouse and found that homozygous
animals die around the time of birth. Poldip2-/- embryos are significantly
smaller than wild type or heterozygous embryos. We found that Poldip2-/- mouse
embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) exhibit reduced growth as measured by population
doubling and growth curves. This effect is not due to apoptosis or senescence;
however, Poldip2-/- MEFs have higher levels of the autophagy marker LC3b.
Measurement of DNA content by flow cytometry revealed an increase in the
percentage of Poldip2-/- cells in the G1 and G2/M phases of the cell cycle,
accompanied by a decrease in the percentage of S-phase cells. Increases in p53
S20 and Sirt1 were observed in passage 2 Poldip2-/- MEFs. In passage 4/5 MEFs,
Cdk1 and CyclinA2 are downregulated in Poldip2-/- cells, and these changes are
reversed by transfection with SV40 large T-antigen, suggesting that Poldip2 may
target the E2F pathway. In contrast, p21CIP1 is increased in passage 4/5
Poldip2-/- MEFs and its expression is unaffected by SV40 transfection. Overall,
these results reveal that Poldip2 is an essential protein in development, and
underline its importance in cell viability and proliferation. Because it affects 
the cell cycle, Poldip2 is a potential novel target for treating proliferative
conditions such as cancer, atherosclerosis and restenosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096657 
PMCID: PMC4010529
PMID: 24797518  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Cell Mol Med. 2014 Jul;18(7):1467-77. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.12289. Epub 2014 May 6.

C/EBP transcription factors regulate NADPH oxidase in human aortic smooth muscle 
cells.

Manea SA(1), Todirita A, Raicu M, Manea A.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology - Functional Genomics Laboratory,
Institute of Cellular Biology and Pathology "Nicolae Simionescu" of the Romanian 
Academy, Bucharest, Romania.

In atherosclerosis, oxidative stress-induced vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) 
dysfunction is partially mediated by up-regulated NADPH oxidase (Nox); the
mechanisms of enzyme regulation are not entirely defined. CCAAT/enhancer-binding 
proteins (C/EBP) regulate cellular proliferation and differentiation, and the
expression of many inflammatory and immune genes. We aimed at elucidating the
role of C/EBP in the regulation of Nox in SMCs exposed to pro-inflammatory
conditions. Human aortic SMCs were treated with interferon-γ (IFN-γ) for up to 24
hrs. Lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence, real-time PCR, Western blot,
promoter-luciferase reporter analysis and chromatin immunoprecipitation assays
were employed to investigate Nox regulation. IFN-γ dose-dependently induced Nox
activity and expression, nuclear translocation and up-regulation of C/EBPα,
C/EBPβ and C/EBPδ protein expression levels. Silencing of C/EBPα, C/EBPβ or
C/EBPδ reduced significantly but differentially the IFN-γ-induced up-regulation
of Nox activity, gene and protein expression. In silico analysis indicated the
existence of typical C/EBP sites within Nox1, Nox4 and Nox5 promoters. Transient 
overexpression of C/EBPα, C/EBPβ or C/EBPδ enhanced the luciferase level directed
by the promoters of the Nox subtypes. Chromatin immunoprecipitation demonstrated 
the physical interaction of C/EBPα, C/EBPβ and C/EBPδ proteins with the Nox1/4/5 
promoters. C/EBP transcription factors are important regulators of Nox enzymes in
IFN-γ-exposed SMCs. Activation of C/EBP may induce excessive Nox-derived reactive
oxygen species formation, further contributing to SMCs dysfunction and
atherosclerotic plaque development. Pharmacological targeting of C/EBP-related
signalling pathways may be used to counteract the adverse effects of oxidative
stress.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.12289 
PMCID: PMC4124029
PMID: 24797079  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Cell Signal. 2014 Sep;26(9):1818-24. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2014.04.018. Epub
2014 May 2.

Early NADPH oxidase-2 activation is crucial in phenylephrine-induced hypertrophy 
of H9c2 cells.

Hahn NE(1), Musters RJ(2), Fritz JM(3), Pagano PJ(4), Vonk AB(5), Paulus WJ(2),
van Rossum AC(6), Meischl C(1), Niessen HW(7), Krijnen PA(8).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Physiology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pharmacology and Chemical Biology, Vascular Medicine Institute, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Cardiac Surgery, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Cardiology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; Department of Cardiac Surgery, VU University Medical Center,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands; ICaR-VU, Institute for Cardiovascular Research, VU University
Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
paj.krijnen@vumc.nl.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by different NADPH oxidases (NOX) play a
role in cardiomyocyte hypertrophy induced by different stimuli, such as
angiotensin II and pressure overload. However, the role of the specific NOX
isoforms in phenylephrine (PE)-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy is unknown.
Therefore we aimed to determine the involvement of the NOX isoforms NOX1, NOX2
and NOX4 in PE-induced cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. Hereto rat neonatal
cardiomyoblasts (H9c2 cells) were incubated with 100 μM PE to induce hypertrophy 
after 24 and 48h as determined via cell and nuclear size measurements using
digital imaging microscopy, electron microscopy and an automated cell counter.
Digital-imaging microscopy further revealed that in contrast to NOX1 and NOX4,
NOX2 expression increased significantly up to 4h after PE stimulation, coinciding
and co-localizing with ROS production in the cytoplasm as well as the nucleus.
Furthermore, inhibition of NOX-mediated ROS production with apocynin, diphenylene
iodonium (DPI) or NOX2 docking sequence (Nox2ds)-tat peptide during these first
4h of PE stimulation significantly inhibited PE-induced hypertrophy of H9c2
cells, both after 24 and 48h of PE stimulation. These data show that early
NOX2-mediated ROS production is crucial in PE-induced hypertrophy of H9c2 cells.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2014.04.018 
PMCID: PMC4406486
PMID: 24794531  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Biochem Pharmacol. 2014 Jul 1;90(1):34-49. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2014.04.008. Epub
2014 Apr 26.

Salvianolic acid B protects human endothelial progenitor cells against oxidative 
stress-mediated dysfunction by modulating Akt/mTOR/4EBP1, p38 MAPK/ATF2, and
ERK1/2 signaling pathways.

Tang Y(1), Jacobi A(2), Vater C(3), Zou X(4), Stiehler M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Translational Bone, Joint and Soft Tissue Research, Medical Faculty
and University Centre for Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital
Carl Gustav Carus at Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany; Department
of Pharmacy, the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University, 510080
Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: yubo.tang@uniklinikum-dresden.de.
(2)Centre for Translational Bone, Joint and Soft Tissue Research, Medical Faculty
and University Centre for Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital
Carl Gustav Carus at Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Electronic
address: angela.jacobi@uniklinikum-dresden.de.
(3)Centre for Translational Bone, Joint and Soft Tissue Research, Medical Faculty
and University Centre for Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital
Carl Gustav Carus at Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Electronic
address: corina.vater@uniklinikum-dresden.de.
(4)Department of Spinal Surgery, the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen
University, 510080 Guangzhou, China. Electronic address: zxnong@hotmail.com.
(5)Centre for Translational Bone, Joint and Soft Tissue Research, Medical Faculty
and University Centre for Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital
Carl Gustav Carus at Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Electronic
address: maik.stiehler@uniklinikum-dresden.de.

The vascular endothelium is specifically sensitive to oxidative stress, and this 
is one of the mechanisms that causes widespread endothelial dysfunction in most
cardiovascular diseases and disorders. Protection against reactive oxygen species
(ROS)-mediated oxidative damage via antioxidant mechanisms is essential for
tissue maintenance and shows therapeutic potential for patients suffering from
cardiovascular and metabolic disorders. Salvianolic acid B (SalB), a natural
bioactive component known from Traditional Chinese Medicine, has been reported to
exert cellular protection in various types of cells. However, the underlying
mechanisms involved are not fully understood. Here, we showed that SalB
significantly promoted the migratory and tube formation abilities of human bone
marrow derived-endothelial progenitor cells (BM-EPCs) in vitro, and substantially
abrogated hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced cell damage. SalB down-regulated Nox4 
and eNOS, as well as nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidase 
expression upon H2O2 induction that in turn prevents oxidative-induced
endothelial dysfunction. Moreover, SalB suppressed the Bax/Bcl-xL ratio and
caspase-3 activation after H2O2 induction. Furthermore, our results provide
mechanistic evidence that activation of the mTOR/p70S6K/4EBP1 pathways is
required for both SalB-mediated angiogenic and protective effects against
oxidative stress-induced cell injury in BM-EPCs. Suppression of MKK3/6-p38
MAPK-ATF2 and ERK1/2 signaling pathways by SalB significantly protected BM-EPCs
against cell injury caused by oxidative stress via reduction of intracellular ROS
levels and apoptosis. Taken together, by providing a mechanistic insight into the
modulation of redox states in BM-EPCs by SalB, we suggest that SalB has a strong 
potential of being a new proangiogenic and cytoprotective therapeutic agent with 
applications in the field of endothelial injury-mediated vascular diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2014.04.008 
PMID: 24780446  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2014 Dec 1;563:51-5. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2014.04.007. Epub
2014 Apr 26.

Updates of reactive oxygen species in melanoma etiology and progression.

Liu-Smith F(1), Dellinger R(2), Meyskens FL Jr(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of California School of Medicine,
Irvine, CA 92697, United States; Department of Medicine, University of California
School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697, United States; Chao Family Comprehensive
Cancer Center, University of California School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697,
United States. Electronic address: liufe@uci.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of California School of Medicine, Irvine,
CA 92697, United States; Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of
California School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697, United States.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, University of California School of Medicine,
Irvine, CA 92697, United States; Department of Medicine, University of California
School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697, United States; Department of Biological
Chemistry, University of California School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697, United 
States; Department of Public Health, University of California School of Medicine,
Irvine, CA 92697, United States; Chao Family Comprehensive Cancer Center,
University of California School of Medicine, Irvine, CA 92697, United States.

Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play crucial roles in all aspects of melanoma
development, however, the source of ROS is not well defined. In this review we
summarize recent advancement in this rapidly developing field. The cellular ROS
pool in melanocytes can be derived from mitochondria, melanosomes, NADPH oxidase 
(NOX) family enzymes, and uncoupling of nitric oxide synthase (NOS). Current
evidence suggests that Nox1, Nox4 and Nox5 are expressed in melanocytic lineage. 
While there is no difference in Nox1 expression levels in primary and metastatic 
melanoma tissues, Nox4 expression is significantly higher in a subset of
metastatic melanoma tumors as compared to the primary tumors; suggesting distinct
and specific signals and effects for NOX family enzymes in melanoma. Targeting
these NOX enzymes using specific NOX inhibitors may be effective for a subset of 
certain tumors. ROS also play important roles in BRAF inhibitor induced drug
resistance; hence identification and blockade of the source of this ROS may be an
effective way to enhance efficacy and overcome resistance. Furthermore, ROS from 
different sources may interact with each other and interact with reactive
nitrogen species (RNS) and drive the melanomagenesis process at all stages of
disease. Further understanding ROS and RNS in melanoma etiology and progression
is necessary for developing new prevention and therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2014.04.007 
PMCID: PMC4209333
PMID: 24780245  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Life Sci. 2014 Jun 6;105(1-2):14-21. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.04.014. Epub 2014
Apr 24.

Remote ischemic preconditioning differentially affects NADPH oxidase isoforms
during hepatic ischemia-reperfusion.

Garab D(1), Fet N(2), Szabó A(1), Tolba RH(2), Boros M(1), Hartmann P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Surgical Research, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science and Experimental Surgery, RWTH Aachen
University, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Surgical Research, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
Electronic address: hartmann.petra@med.szote.u-szeged.hu.

AIMS: We investigated the function of major superoxide-generating enzymes after
remote ischemic preconditioning (IPC) and hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (IR), with
the specific aim of assessing the importance of the most relevant NADPH oxidase
(NOX) isoforms, NOX2 and NOX4, in the mechanism of action.
MAIN METHODS: 60-min partial liver ischemia was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats in
the presence or absence of remote IPC (2 × 10-min limb IR), and hepatic
microcirculatory variables were determined through intravital video microscopy
and lightguide spectrophotometry during reperfusion. Inflammatory enzyme
activities (myeloperoxidase (MPO) and xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR)), cytokine
production (TNF-α and HMGB-1), liver necroenzyme levels (AST, ALT and LDH) and
NOX2 and NOX4 protein expression changes (Western blot analysis) were assayed
biochemically.
KEY FINDINGS: In this setting, remote IPC significantly decreased the IR-induced 
hepatic NOX2 expression, but the NOX4 expression remained unchanged. The remote
IPC provided significant, but incomplete protection against the
leukocyte-endothelial cell interactions and flow deterioration. Hepatocellular
damage (AST, ALT and LDH release), cytokine levels, and XOR and MPO activities
also diminished.
SIGNIFICANCE: Remote IPC limited the IR-induced microcirculatory dysfunction, but
the protective effect did not affect all NOX homologs (at least not NOX4). The
residual damage and inflammatory activation could well be linked to the
unchanging NOX4 activity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.04.014 
PMID: 24768926  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. J Nutr Biochem. 2014 Jul;25(7):773-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.03.010. Epub
2014 Apr 2.

Increase in AMPK brought about by cocoa is renoprotective in experimental
diabetes mellitus by reducing NOX4/TGFβ-1 signaling.

Papadimitriou A(1), Peixoto EB(2), Silva KC(3), Lopes de Faria JM(4), Lopes de
Faria JB(5).

Author information: 
(1)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: alexbiochemist@gmail.com.
(2)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: empeixoto@gmail.com.
(3)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: kamila@fcm.unicamp.br.
(4)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: lopesdefariajm@gmail.com.
(5)Renal Pathophysiology Laboratory, Investigation on Diabetes Complications,
Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of Campinas (Unicamp), Campinas,
São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: jblfaria@gmail.com.

The aims of the present study were to investigate, in diabetes mellitus (DM), the
mechanism of NOX4 up-regulation, its link with 5' adenosine
monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) inactivation and transforming
growth factor (TGF) ß-1 signaling in determining the accumulation of kidney
extracellular matrix (ECM), and the possible action of cocoa enriched with
polyphenols (CH) in these events. After 16 weeks of DM, spontaneously
hypertensive rats showed increased kidney TGFβ-1 levels and expression of
phosphorylated smad2, collagen IV and fibronectin in parallel with elevated NOX4 
expression and reduced phosphorylated AMPK. CH treatment in diabetic rats
prevented all of these abnormalities. In immortalized human mesangial cells
exposed to high glucose (HG), or TGFβ-1, CH, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
phosphate blocker, or silencing NOX4 ameliorated enhanced phosphorylated smad2
and collagen IV. Reduction in phosphorylated AMPK induced by HG or TGFβ-1 was
ameliorated by CH or activation of AMPK, which reduced phosphorylation of smad2
and collagen IV via reduction in NOX4 expression. The effects of CH were
abolished by AMPK blockade. These results suggest that inactivation in AMPK leads
to NOX4 up-regulation, activation of TGFβ-1 signaling and increased ECM
accumulation. Additionally, increased TGF-ß1 per se leads to the amplification of
ECM production by reducing AMPK and promoting the activation of NOX4. It is
suggested that the activation of AMPK by CH followed by reduction in NOX4/TGFβ-1 
signaling may have a therapeutic potential in diabetic nephropathy.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2014.03.010 
PMID: 24768660  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 23;9(4):e95916. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095916. eCollection
2014.

Mitochondrial regulation of NADPH oxidase in hindlimb unweighting rat cerebral
arteries.

Zhang R(1), Ran HH(2), Peng L(1), Xu F(3), Sun JF(1), Zhang LN(1), Fan YY(1),
Peng L(1), Cui G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Geriatric Cardiology, Chinese People's Liberation Army General
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Geriatric Hematology, Chinese People's Liberation Army General
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Chinese People's Liberation Army 302 Hospital,
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Osteology, Chinese People's Liberation Army General Hospital,
Beijing, China.

Exposure to microgravity results in post-flight cardiovascular deconditioning and
orthostatic intolerance in astronauts. Vascular oxidative stress injury and
mitochondrial dysfunction have been indicated in this process. To elucidate the
mechanism for this condition, we investigated whether mitochondria regulated
NADPH oxidase in hindlimb unweighting (HU) rat cerebral and mesenteric arteries. 
Four-week HU was used to simulate microgravity in rats. Vascular superoxide
generation, protein and mRNA levels of Nox2/Nox4, and the activity of NADPH
oxidase were examined in the present study. Compared with control rats, the
levels of superoxide increased in cerebral (P<0.001) but not in mesenteric
vascular smooth muscle cells. The protein and mRNA levels of Nox2 and Nox4 were
upregulated significantly (P<0.001 and P<0.001 for Nox2, respectively; P<0.001
and P<0.001 for Nox4, respectively) in HU rat cerebral arteries but not in
mesenteric arteries. NADPH oxidases were activated significantly by HU (P<0.001) 
in cerebral arteries but not in mesenteric arteries. Chronic treatment with
mitochondria-targeted antioxidant mitoTEMPO attenuated superoxide levels
(P<0.001), decreased the protein and mRNA expression levels of Nox2/Nox4 (P<0.01 
and P<0.05 for Nox2, respectively; P<0.001 and P<0.001 for Nox4, respectively)
and the activity of NADPH oxidase (P<0.001) in HU rat cerebral arteries, but
exerted no effects on HU rat mesenteric arteries. Therefore, mitochondria
regulated the expression and activity of NADPH oxidases during simulated
microgravity. Both mitochondria and NADPH oxidase participated in vascular redox 
status regulation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095916 
PMCID: PMC3997512
PMID: 24759683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Cancer Res. 2014 Jul 1;74(13):3501-3511. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-13-2979. Epub
2014 Apr 22.

NADPH oxidase NOX4 supports renal tumorigenesis by promoting the expression and
nuclear accumulation of HIF2α.

Gregg JL(#)(1), Turner RM 2nd(#)(1), Chang G(1), Joshi D(1), Zhan Y(2), Chen
L(1), Maranchie JK(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Department of Urology and University of Pittsburgh
Cancer Institute.
(2)University of Massachusetts, Department of Surgery.
(#)Contributed equally

Most sporadically occurring renal tumors include a functional loss of the tumor
suppressor von Hippel Lindau (VHL). Development of VHL-deficient renal cell
carcinoma (RCC) relies upon activation of the hypoxia-inducible factor-2α
(HIF2α), a master transcriptional regulator of genes that drive diverse
processes, including angiogenesis, proliferation, and anaerobic metabolism. In
determining the critical functions for HIF2α expression in RCC cells, the NADPH
oxidase NOX4 has been identified, but the pathogenic contributions of NOX4 to RCC
have not been evaluated directly. Here, we report that NOX4 silencing in
VHL-deficient RCC cells abrogates cell branching, invasion, colony formation, and
growth in a murine xenograft model RCC. These alterations were phenocopied by
treatment of the superoxide scavenger, TEMPOL, or by overexpression of manganese 
superoxide dismutase or catalase. Notably, NOX4 silencing or superoxide
scavenging was sufficient to block nuclear accumulation of HIF2α in RCC cells.
Our results offer direct evidence that NOX4 is critical for renal tumorigenesis
and they show how NOX4 suppression and VHL re-expression in VHL-deficient RCC
cells are genetically synonymous, supporting development of therapeutic regimens 
aimed at NOX4 blockade.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-13-2979 
PMCID: PMC4079760
PMID: 24755467  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Cardiovasc Res. 2014 Jul 1;103(1):147-55. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvu106. Epub 2014 Apr 
18.

Reactive oxygen species regulate the quiescence of CD34-positive cells derived
from human embryonic stem cells.

Song SH(1), Kim K(1), Park JJ(1), Min KH(2), Suh W(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Ajou University, San 5, Woncheon-Dong, Yeongtong-Gu,
Suwon, Gyeonggi-do 443-749, Korea.
(2)College of Pharmacy, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 156-756, Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Ajou University, San 5, Woncheon-Dong, Yeongtong-Gu,
Suwon, Gyeonggi-do 443-749, Korea wonhee.suh@gmail.com.

AIMS: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in a wide range of cellular
processes. However, few studies have examined the generation and function of ROS 
in human embryonic vascular development. In this study, the sources of ROS and
their roles in the vascular differentiation of human embryonic stem cells (hESCs)
were investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: During vascular differentiation of hESCs, CD34(+) cells had 
quiescence-related gene expression profiles and a large fraction of these cells
were in G0 phase. In addition, levels of ROS, which were primarily generated
through NOX4, were substantially higher in hESC-derived CD34(+) cells than in
hESC-derived CD34(-) cells. To determine whether excess levels of ROS induce
quiescence of hESC-derived CD34(+) cells, ROS levels were moderately reduced
using selenium to enhance antioxidant activities of thioredoxin reductase and
glutathione peroxidase. In comparison to untreated CD34(+) cells,
selenium-treated CD34(+) cells exhibited changes in gene expression that favoured
cell cycle progression, and had a greater proliferation and a smaller fraction of
cells in G0 phase. Thus, selenium treatment increased the number of hESC-derived 
CD34(+) cells, thereby enhancing the efficiency with which hESCs differentiated
into vascular endothelial and smooth muscle cells.
CONCLUSION: This study reveals that NOX4 produces ROS in CD34(+) cells during
vascular differentiation of hESCs, and shows that modulation of ROS levels using 
antioxidants such as selenium may be a novel approach to increase the vascular
differentiation efficiency of hESCs.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. ©
The Author 2014. For permissions please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvu106 
PMID: 24747991  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Atheroscler Thromb. 2014;21(9):904-16. Epub 2014 Apr 12.

Aryl hydrocarbon receptor mediates indoxyl sulfate-induced cellular senescence in
human umbilical vein endothelial cells.

Koizumi M(1), Tatebe J, Watanabe I, Yamazaki J, Ikeda T, Morita T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Toho University Faculty of Medicine.

AIM: Vascular senescence, which is accelerated in individuals with chronic kidney
disease (CKD), contributes to the development of cardio-renal syndrome, and
various uremic toxins may play important roles in the mechanisms underlying this 
phenomenon. We recently reported that indoxyl sulfate (IS), a uremic toxin,
directly activates aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) and generates oxidative stress
through NADPH oxidase-4 in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). In
the current study, we sought to examine whether IS regulates sirtuin 1 (Sirt1)
and affects endothelial senescence via AhR activation.
METHODS: HUVECs were incubated with 500 μmol/L of IS for the indicated time
periods. In order to evaluate changes in the senescence of the HUVECs, the number
of senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA β-gal)-positive cells was determined
using an image analysis software program. The intracellular nicotinamide
phosphoribosyltransferase (iNampt) activity, cellular NAD(＋)/NADPH ratio and
Sirt1 activity were analyzed according to a colorimetric assay to determine the
mechanism of cellular senescence. Furthermore, we evaluated the involvement of
AhR in the senescence-related changes induced by IS using AhR antagonists.
RESULTS: IS decreased the iNampt activity, NAD(＋)/NADPH ratio and Sirt1 activity,
resulting in an increase in the percentage of SA β-gal-positive cells. On the
other hand, the AhR antagonists restored the IS-induced decrease in the NAD(＋)
content in association with an improvement in the iNampt activity and ameliorated
the senescence-related changes. Taken together, these results indicate that IS
impairs the iNampt-NAD(＋)-Sirt1 system via AhR activation, which in turn promotes
endothelial senescence.
CONCLUSIONS: The IS-AhR pathway induces endothelial senescence. Therefore,
blocking the effects of AhR in the endothelium may provide a new therapeutic tool
for treating cardio-renal syndrome.


PMID: 24727683  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:456937. doi: 10.1155/2014/456937. Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Nuclear Nox4-derived reactive oxygen species in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Guida M(1), Maraldi T(1), Beretti F(1), Follo MY(2), Manzoli L(2), De Pol A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgical, Medical, Dental and Morphological Sciences with
interest in Transplant, Oncology and Regenerative Medicine, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia, Via Del Pozzo 71, 41124 Modena, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Anatomic Sciences, University of Bologna, Via Irnerio 48, 
40100 Bologna, Italy.

A role for intracellular ROS production has been recently implicated in the
pathogenesis and progression of a wide variety of neoplasias. ROS sources, such
as NAD(P)H oxidase (Nox) complexes, are frequently activated in AML (acute
myeloid leukemia) blasts and strongly contribute to their proliferation,
survival, and drug resistance. Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) comprise a
heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by ineffective hematopoiesis, with
an increased propensity to develop AML. The molecular basis for MDS progression
is unknown, but a key element in MDS disease progression is the genomic
instability. NADPH oxidases are now recognized to have specific subcellular
localizations, this targeting to specific compartments for localized ROS
production. Local Nox-dependent ROS production in the nucleus may contribute to
the regulation of redox-dependent cell growth, differentiation, senescence, DNA
damage, and apoptosis. We observed that Nox1, 2, and 4 isoforms and p22phox and
Rac1 subunits are expressed in MDS/AML cell lines and MDS samples, also in the
nuclear fractions. Interestingly, Nox4 interacts with ERK and Akt1 within nuclear
speckle domain, suggesting that Nox4 could be involved in regulating gene
expression and splicing factor activity. These data contribute to the elucidation
of the molecular mechanisms used by nuclear ROS to drive MDS evolution to AML.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/456937 
PMCID: PMC3955662
PMID: 24719867  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Sci Transl Med. 2014 Apr 9;6(231):231ra47. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3008182.

Reversal of persistent fibrosis in aging by targeting Nox4-Nrf2 redox imbalance.

Hecker L(1), Logsdon NJ, Kurundkar D, Kurundkar A, Bernard K, Hock T, Meldrum E, 
Sanders YY, Thannickal VJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.

Comment in
    Exp Gerontol. 2015 Mar;63:81-2.
    Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2014 Jun;13(6):415.

The incidence and prevalence of pathological fibrosis increase with advancing
age, although mechanisms for this association are unclear. We assessed the
capacity for repair of lung injury in young (2 months) and aged (18 months) mice.
Whereas the severity of fibrosis was not different between these groups, aged
mice demonstrated an impaired capacity for fibrosis resolution. Persistent
fibrosis in lungs of aged mice was characterized by the accumulation of senescent
and apoptosis-resistant myofibroblasts. These cellular phenotypes were sustained 
by alterations in cellular redox homeostasis resulting from elevated expression
of the reactive oxygen species-generating enzyme Nox4 [NADPH (reduced form of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) oxidase-4] and an impaired capacity 
to induce the Nrf2 (NFE2-related factor 2) antioxidant response. Lung tissues
from human subjects with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a progressive and
fatal lung disease, also demonstrated this Nox4-Nrf2 imbalance. Nox4 mediated
senescence and apoptosis resistance in IPF fibroblasts. Genetic and
pharmacological targeting of Nox4 in aged mice with established fibrosis
attenuated the senescent, antiapoptotic myofibroblast phenotype and led to a
reversal of persistent fibrosis. These studies suggest that loss of cellular
redox homeostasis promotes profibrotic myofibroblast phenotypes that result in
persistent fibrosis associated with aging. Our studies suggest that restoration
of Nox4-Nrf2 redox balance in myofibroblasts may be a therapeutic strategy in
age-associated fibrotic disorders, potentially able to resolve persistent
fibrosis or even reverse its progression.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3008182 
PMCID: PMC4545252
PMID: 24718857  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Int J Mol Med. 2014 Jul;34(1):167-76. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2014.1741. Epub 2014 Apr 
9.

Astragaloside IV prevents damage to human mesangial cells through the inhibition 
of the NADPH oxidase/ROS/Akt/NF‑κB pathway under high glucose conditions.

Sun L(1), Li W(1), Li W(1), Xiong L(1), Li G(1), Ma R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Basic Medicine, Anhui Medical
University, Hefei, Anhui 230032, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Integrative Physiology and Cardiovascular Research Institute,
University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX 76107, USA.

Glomerular hypertrophy and hyperfiltration are the two major pathological
characteristics of the early stages of diabetic nephropathy (DN), which are
respectively related to mesangial cell (MC) proliferation and a decrease in
calcium influx conducted by canonical transient receptor potential cation channel
6 (TRPC6). The marked increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS)
induced by hyperglycemia is the main sponsor of multiple pathological pathways in
DN. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase is an important
source of ROS production in MCs. Astragaloside IV (AS‑IV) is an active ingredient
of Radix Astragali which has a potent antioxidative effect. In this study, we
aimed to investigate whether high glucose (HG)‑induced NADPH oxidase activation
and ROS production contribute to MC proliferation and the downregulation of TRPC6
expression; we also wished to determine the effects of AS‑IV on MCs under HG
conditions. Using a human glomerular mesangial cell line, we found that treatment
with AS‑IV for 48 h markedly attenuated HG‑induced proliferation and the
hypertrophy of MCs in a dose‑dependent manner. The intracellular ROS level was
also markedly reduced following treatment with AS‑IV. In addition, the enhanced
activity of NADPH oxidase and the expression level of NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4)
protein were decreased. Treatment with AS‑IV also inhibited the phosphorylation
level of Akt and IκBα in the MCs. In addition, TRPC6 protein expression and the
intracellular free calcium concentration were also markedly reduced following
treatment with AS‑IV under HG conditions. These results suggest that AS‑IV
inhibits HG‑induced mesangial cell proliferation and glomerular contractile
dysfunction through the NADPH oxidase/ROS/Akt/nuclear factor‑κB (NF‑κB) pathway, 
providing a new perspective for the clinical treatment of DN.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2014.1741 
PMID: 24718766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Br J Cancer. 2014 May 13;110(10):2569-82. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2014.165. Epub 2014
Apr 8.

Wild-type and mutant p53 differentially regulate NADPH oxidase 4 in
TGF-β-mediated migration of human lung and breast epithelial cells.

Boudreau HE(1), Casterline BW(1), Burke DJ(1), Leto TL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Host Defenses, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 12441 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD
20852, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) induces the
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) leading to increased cell plasticity
at the onset of cancer cell invasion and metastasis. Mechanisms involved in
TGF-β-mediated EMT and cell motility are unclear. Recent studies showed that p53 
affects TGF-β/SMAD3-mediated signalling, cell migration, and tumorigenesis. We
previously demonstrated that Nox4, a Nox family NADPH oxidase, is a
TGF-β/SMAD3-inducible source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) affecting cell
migration and fibronectin expression, an EMT marker, in normal and metastatic
breast epithelial cells. Our present study investigates the involvement of p53 in
TGF-β-regulated Nox4 expression and cell migration.
METHODS: We investigated the effect of wild-type p53 (WT-p53) and mutant p53
proteins on TGF-β-regulated Nox4 expression and cell migration. Nox4 mRNA and
protein, ROS production, cell migration, and focal adhesion kinase (FAK)
activation were examined in three different cell models based on their p53
mutational status. H1299, a p53-null lung epithelial cell line, was used for
heterologous expression of WT-p53 or mutant p53. In contrast, functional studies 
using siRNA-mediated knockdown of endogenous p53 were conducted in MDA-MB-231
metastatic breast epithelial cells that express p53-R280K and MCF-10A normal
breast cells that have WT-p53.
RESULTS: We found that WT-p53 is a potent suppressor of TGF-β-induced Nox4, ROS
production, and cell migration in p53-null lung epithelial (H1299) cells. In
contrast, tumour-associated mutant p53 proteins (R175H or R280K) caused enhanced 
Nox4 expression and cell migration in both TGF-β-dependent and TGF-β-independent 
pathways. Moreover, knockdown of endogenous mutant p53 (R280K) in TGF-β-treated
MDA-MB-231 metastatic breast epithelial cells resulted in decreased Nox4 protein 
and reduced phosphorylation of FAK, a key regulator of cell motility. Expression 
of WT-p53 or dominant-negative Nox4 decreased TGF-β-mediated FAK phosphorylation,
whereas mutant p53 (R280K) increased phospho-FAK. Furthermore, knockdown of
WT-p53 in MCF-10A normal breast epithelial cells increased basal Nox4 expression,
whereas p53-R280K could override endogenous WT-p53 repression of Nox4.
Remarkably, immunofluorescence analysis revealed MCF-10A cells expressing
p53-R280K mutant showed an upregulation of Nox4 in both confluent and migrating
cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings define novel opposing functions for
WT-p53 and mutant p53 proteins in regulating Nox4-dependent signalling in
TGF-β-mediated cell motility.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2014.165 
PMCID: PMC4021516
PMID: 24714748  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:131737. doi: 10.1155/2014/131737. Epub 2014 Feb 20.

Redox signaling as a therapeutic target to inhibit myofibroblast activation in
degenerative fibrotic disease.

Sampson N(1), Berger P(2), Zenzmaier C(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Experimental Urology, Department of Urology, Innsbruck Medical
University, Anichstrasse 35, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Aging Research, University of Innsbruck, 6020
Innsbruck, Austria.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine III, Innsbruck Medical University,
Anichstrasse 35, A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

Degenerative fibrotic diseases encompass numerous systemic and organ-specific
disorders. Despite their associated significant morbidity and mortality, there is
currently no effective antifibrotic treatment. Fibrosis is characterized by the
development and persistence of myofibroblasts, whose unregulated deposition of
extracellular matrix components disrupts signaling cascades and normal tissue
architecture leading to organ failure and death. The profibrotic cytokine
transforming growth factor beta (TGFβ) is considered the foremost inducer of
fibrosis, driving myofibroblast differentiation in diverse tissues. This review
summarizes recent in vitro and in vivo data demonstrating that TGF β-induced
myofibroblast differentiation is driven by a prooxidant shift in redox
homeostasis. Elevated NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4)-derived hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)
supported by concomitant decreases in nitric oxide (NO) signaling and reactive
oxygen species scavengers are central factors in the molecular pathogenesis of
fibrosis in numerous tissues and organs. Moreover, complex interplay between
NOX4-derived H2O2 and NO signaling regulates myofibroblast differentiation.
Restoring redox homeostasis via antioxidants or NOX4 inactivation as well as by
enhancing NO signaling via activation of soluble guanylyl cyclases or inhibition 
of phosphodiesterases can inhibit and reverse myofibroblast differentiation.
Thus, dysregulated redox signaling represents a potential therapeutic target for 
the treatment of wide variety of different degenerative fibrotic disorders.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/131737 
PMCID: PMC3950649
PMID: 24701562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Endocrinol. 2014 Jun;221(3):415-27. doi: 10.1530/JOE-13-0502. Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Administration of 3,5-diiodothyronine (3,5-T2) causes central hypothyroidism and 
stimulates thyroid-sensitive tissues.

Padron AS(1), Neto RA(2), Pantaleão TU(1), de Souza dos Santos MC(1), Araujo
RL(1), de Andrade BM(1), da Silva Leandro M(1), de Castro JP(1), Ferreira AC(1), 
de Carvalho DP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Fisiologia Endócrina Doris RosenthalInstituto de Biofísica
Carlos Chagas Filho and Instituto de Pesquisa Translacional em Saúde e Ambiente
na Região Amazônica (INPeTAM), CCS-Bloco G- Cidade Universitria, Ilha do Fundo,
Rio de Janeiro 21949-900, BrazilLaboratório de Biologia do ExercícioEscola de
Educação Física e Desportos, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Fisiologia Endócrina Doris RosenthalInstituto de Biofísica
Carlos Chagas Filho and Instituto de Pesquisa Translacional em Saúde e Ambiente
na Região Amazônica (INPeTAM), CCS-Bloco G- Cidade Universitria, Ilha do Fundo,
Rio de Janeiro 21949-900, BrazilLaboratório de Biologia do ExercícioEscola de
Educação Física e Desportos, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, BrazilLaboratório de Fisiologia Endócrina Doris RosenthalInstituto de
Biofísica Carlos Chagas Filho and Instituto de Pesquisa Translacional em Saúde e 
Ambiente na Região Amazônica (INPeTAM), CCS-Bloco G- Cidade Universitria, Ilha do
Fundo, Rio de Janeiro 21949-900, BrazilLaboratório de Biologia do ExercícioEscola
de Educação Física e Desportos, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Laboratório de Fisiologia Endócrina Doris RosenthalInstituto de Biofísica
Carlos Chagas Filho and Instituto de Pesquisa Translacional em Saúde e Ambiente
na Região Amazônica (INPeTAM), CCS-Bloco G- Cidade Universitria, Ilha do Fundo,
Rio de Janeiro 21949-900, BrazilLaboratório de Biologia do ExercícioEscola de
Educação Física e Desportos, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil dencarv@biof.ufrj.br.

In general, 3,5-diiodothyronine (3,5-T2) increases the resting metabolic rate and
oxygen consumption, exerting short-term beneficial metabolic effects on rats
subjected to a high-fat diet. Our aim was to evaluate the effects of chronic
3,5-T2 administration on the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis, body mass gain,
adipose tissue mass, and body oxygen consumption in Wistar rats from 3 to 6
months of age. The rats were treated daily with 3,5-T2 (25, 50, or 75 μg/100 g
body weight, s.c.) for 90 days between the ages of 3 and 6 months. The
administration of 3,5-T2 suppressed thyroid function, reducing not only thyroid
iodide uptake but also thyroperoxidase, NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), and thyroid type 
1 iodothyronine deiodinase (D1 (DIO1)) activities and expression levels, whereas 
the expression of the TSH receptor and dual oxidase (DUOX) were increased. Serum 
TSH, 3,3',5-triiodothyronine, and thyroxine were reduced in a 3,5-T2
dose-dependent manner, whereas oxygen consumption increased in these animals,
indicating the direct action of 3,5-T2 on this physiological variable. Type 2
deiodinase activity increased in both the hypothalamus and the pituitary, and D1 
activities in the liver and kidney were also increased in groups treated with
3,5-T2. Moreover, after 3 months of 3,5-T2 administration, body mass and
retroperitoneal fat pad mass were significantly reduced, whereas the heart rate
and mass were unchanged. Thus, 3,5-T2 acts as a direct stimulator of energy
expenditure and reduces body mass gain; however, TSH suppression may develop
secondary to 3,5-T2 administration.

© 2014 The authors.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-13-0502 
PMCID: PMC4045230
PMID: 24692290  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Redox Biol. 2014 Feb 22;2:570-9. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.020. eCollection
2014.

Unique role of NADPH oxidase 5 in oxidative stress in human renal proximal tubule
cells.

Yu P(1), Han W(2), Villar VA(1), Yang Y(1), Lu Q(3), Lee H(1), Li F(4), Quinn
MT(5), Gildea JJ(6), Felder RA(6), Jose PA(7).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, The First Hospital Affiliated to Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, PR China.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington,
DC, USA.
(4)Liver Diseases Branch, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney
Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(5)Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Montana State University,
Bozeman, MT, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center,
Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(7)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA ; Department of Physiology, University of
Maryland School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

NADPH oxidases are the major sources of reactive oxygen species in
cardiovascular, neural, and kidney cells. The NADPH oxidase 5 (NOX5) gene is
present in humans but not rodents. Because Nox isoforms in renal proximal tubules
(RPTs) are involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension, we tested the hypothesis
that NOX5 is differentially expressed in RPT cells from normotensive (NT) and
hypertensive subjects (HT). We found that NOX5 mRNA, total NOX5 protein, and
apical membrane NOX5 protein were 4.2±0.7-fold, 5.2±0.7-fold, and 2.8±0.5-fold
greater in HT than NT. Basal total NADPH oxidase activity was 4.5±0.2-fold and
basal NOX5 activity in NOX5 immunoprecipitates was 6.2±0.2-fold greater in HT
than NT (P=<0.001, n=6-14/group). Ionomycin increased total NOX and NOX5
activities in RPT cells from HT (P<0.01, n=4, ANOVA), effects that were abrogated
by pre-treatment of the RPT cells with diphenylene-iodonium or superoxide
dismutase. Silencing NOX5 using NOX5-siRNA decreased NADPH oxidase activity
(-45.1±3.2% vs. mock-siRNA, n=6-8) in HT. D1-like receptor stimulation decreased 
NADPH oxidase activity to a greater extent in NT (-32.5±1.8%) than HT
(-14.8±1.8). In contrast to the marked increase in expression and activity of
NOX5 in HT, NOX1 mRNA and protein were minimally increased in HT, relative to NT;
total NOX2 and NOX4 proteins were not different between HT and NT, while the
increase in apical RPT cell membrane NOX1, NOX2, and NOX4 proteins in HT,
relative to NT, was much less than those observed with NOX5. Thus, we
demonstrate, for the first time, that NOX5 is expressed in human RPT cells and to
greater extent than the other Nox isoforms in HT than NT. We suggest that the
increased expression of NOX5, which may be responsible for the increased
oxidative stress in RPT cells in human essential hypertension, is caused, in
part, by a defective renal dopaminergic system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.020 
PMCID: PMC3969603
PMID: 24688893  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Lab Invest. 2014 Jun;94(6):598-607. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.2014.50. Epub 2014 Mar
31.

Dipeptidyl peptidase IV inhibitor protects against renal interstitial fibrosis in
a mouse model of ureteral obstruction.

Min HS(1), Kim JE(1), Lee MH(1), Song HK(1), Kang YS(1), Lee MJ(1), Lee JE(2),
Kim HW(2), Cha JJ(1), Chung YY(1), Hyun YY(3), Han JY(4), Cha DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Korea University
Ansan-Hospital, Korea University, Ansan, Korea.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Wonkwang University, 
Gunpo, Korea.
(3)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Sungkyunkwan
University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Inha University, Incheon, Korea.

Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV) is an exopeptidase that modulates the function of
several substrates, among which insulin-releasing incretin hormones are the most 
well known. DPPIV also modulate substrates involved in inflammation, cell
migration, and cell differentiation. Although DPPIV is highly expressed in
proximal renal tubular cells, the role of DPPIV inhibition in renal disease is
not fully understood. For this reason, we investigated the effects of LC15-0444, 
a DPPIV inhibitor, on renal function in a mouse model of renal fibrosis.
Eight-week-old C57/BL6 mice were subjected to unilateral ureteral obstruction
(UUO) and were treated with LC15-0444 (a DPPIV inhibitor) at a dose of 150 mg/kg 
per day in food or vehicle for 14 days. DPPIV activity was significantly
increased in obstructed kidneys, and reduced after treatment with LC15-0444.
Administration of LC15-0444 resulted in a significant decrease in albuminuria,
urinary excretion of 8-isoprostane, and renal fibrosis. DPPIV inhibition also
substantially decreased the synthesis of several proinflammatory and profibrotic 
molecules, as well as the infiltration of macrophages. UUO significantly
increased, and LC15-0444 markedly suppressed, levels of phosphorylated Smad2/3,
TGFβ1, toll-like receptor 4, high-mobility group box-1, NADPH oxidase 4, and
NF-κB. These results suggest that activation of DPPIV in the kidney has a role in
the progression of renal disease and that targeted therapy inhibiting DPPIV may
prove to be a useful new approach in the management of progressive renal disease,
independent of mechanisms mediated by glucagon-like peptide-1.

DOI: 10.1038/labinvest.2014.50 
PMID: 24687121  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Neurochem. 2014 Jun;129(5):827-38. doi: 10.1111/jnc.12695. Epub 2014 Mar 27.

Hydrogen sulfide protects blood-brain barrier integrity following cerebral
ischemia.

Wang Y(1), Jia J, Ao G, Hu L, Liu H, Xiao Y, Du H, Alkayed NJ, Liu CF, Cheng J.

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Translational Research and Therapy for
Neuro-Psycho-Diseases and Institute of Neuroscience, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China; The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou,
Jiangsu, China.

By using two structurally unrelated hydrogen sulfide (H2 S) donors
5-(4-methoxyphenyl) -3H-1, 2-dithiole-3-thione (ADT) and sodium hydrosulfide
(NaHS), this study investigated if H2 S protected blood-brain barrier (BBB)
integrity following middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). ICR mice underwent
MCAO and received H2 S donors at 3 h after reperfusion. Infarction, neurological 
scores, brain edema, Evans blue (EB) extravasation, and tight junction protein
expression were examined at 48 h after MCAO. We also investigated if ADT
protected BBB integrity by suppressing post-ischemic inflammation-induced Matrix 
Metalloproteimase-9 (MMP9) and Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
(NADPH) oxidase (NOX). ADT increased blood H2 S concentrations, decreased
infarction, and improved neurological deficits. Particularly, ADT reduced EB
extravasation, brain edema and preserved expression of tight junction proteins in
the ischemic brain. NaHS also increased blood H2 S levels and reduced EB
extravasation following MCAO. Moreover, ADT inhibited expression of
pro-inflammatory markers induced Nitric Oxide Synthase (iNOS) and IL-1β while
enhanced expression of anti-inflammatory markers arginase 1 and IL-10 in the
ischemic brain. Accordingly, ADT attenuated ischemia-induced expression and
activity of MMP9. Moreover, ADT reduced NOX-4 mRNA expression, NOX activity, and 
inhibited nuclear translocation of Nuclear Factor Kappa-B (NF-κB) in the ischemic
brain. In conclusion, H2 S donors protected BBB integrity following experimental 
stroke possibly by acting through NF-κB inhibition to suppress neuroinflammation 
induction of MMP9 and NOX4-derived free radicals. To determine H2 S effects on
blood-brain barrier (BBB) disruption following stroke, we used two structurally
unrelated H2 S donors ADT and NaHS. Both ADT and NaHS remarkably protected BBB
integrity following experimental stroke. The slow-releasing donor ADT also
reduced post-ischemic inflammation-induced expression and activity of MMP9 and
NOX4 in the ischemic brain possibly by inhibiting NF-κB activation.

© 2014 International Society for Neurochemistry.

DOI: 10.1111/jnc.12695 
PMID: 24673410  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Jun;71:109-20. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.03.015. Epub 2014 Mar 19.

Upregulation of cannabinoid receptor-1 and fibrotic activation of mouse hepatic
stellate cells during Schistosoma J. infection: role of NADPH oxidase.

Wang M(1), Abais JM(2), Meng N(1), Zhang Y(2), Ritter JK(2), Li PL(2), Tang
WX(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Liver Diseases, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, 1095 Jie-Fang Avenue, Wuhan 430030, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Virginia Commonwealth University,
School of Medicine, Richmond, VA 23298, USA.
(3)Institute of Liver Diseases, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology, 1095 Jie-Fang Avenue, Wuhan 430030, China. 
Electronic address: tangwx@tjh.tjmu.edu.cn.

The endocannabinoid system (CS) has been implicated in the development of hepatic
fibrosis such as schistosomiasis-associated liver fibrosis (SSLF). However, the
mechanisms mediating the action of the CS in hepatic fibrosis are unclear. The
present study hypothesized that Schistosoma J. infection upregulates cannabinoid 
receptor 1 (CB1) due to activation of NADPH oxidase leading to a fibrotic
phenotype in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). The SSLF model was developed by
infecting mice with Schistosoma J. cercariae in the skin, and HSCs from control
and infected mice were then isolated, cultured, and confirmed by analysis of HSC 
markers α-SMA and desmin. CB1 significantly increased in HSCs isolated from mice 
with SSLF, which was accompanied by a greater expression of fibrotic markers
α-SMA, collagen I, and TIMP-1. CB1 upregulation and enhanced fibrotic changes
were also observed in normal HSCs treated with soluble egg antigen (SEA) from
Schistosoma J. Electron spin resonance (ESR) analysis further demonstrated that
superoxide (O2(-)) production was increased in infected HSCs or normal HSCs
stimulated with SEA. Both Nox4 and Nox1 siRNA prevented SEA-induced upregulation 
of CB1, α-SMA, collagen I, and TIMP-1 by inhibition of O2(-) production, while
CB1 siRNA blocked SEA-induced fibrotic changes without effect on O2(-) production
in these HSCs. Taken together, these data suggest that the fibrotic activation of
HSCs on Schistosoma J. infection or SEA stimulation is associated with NADPH
oxidase-mediated redox regulation of CB1 expression, which may be a triggering
mechanism for SSLF.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.03.015 
PMID: 24657416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Clin Transl Gastroenterol. 2014 Mar 20;5:e55. doi: 10.1038/ctg.2014.4.

Propionyl-L-Carnitine is Efficacious in Ulcerative Colitis Through its Action on 
the Immune Function and Microvasculature.

Scioli MG(1), Stasi MA(2), Passeri D(1), Doldo E(1), Costanza G(1), Camerini
R(2), Fociani P(3), Arcuri G(4), Lombardo K(2), Pace S(2), Borsini F(2), Orlandi 
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anatomic Pathology, Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Sigma-Tau, Pomezia, Rome, Italy.
(3)Anatomic Pathology, Luigi Sacco Hospital, Milan, Italy.
(4)Experimental Medicine and Biochemical Sciences, Tor Vergata University of
Rome, Rome, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Microvascular endothelial dysfunction characterizes ulcerative
colitis (UC), the most widespread form of inflammatory bowel disease. Intestinal 
mucosal microvessels in UC display aberrant expression of cell adhesion molecules
(CAMs) and increased inflammatory cell recruitment. Propionyl-L-carnitine (PLC), 
an ester of L-carnitine required for the mitochondrial transport of fatty acids, 
ameliorates propionyl-CoA bioavailability and reduces oxidative stress in
ischemic tissues. The present study aimed to document the efficacy of
anti-oxidative stress properties of PLC in counteracting intestinal microvascular
endothelial dysfunction and inflammation.
METHODS: To evaluate the efficacy in vivo, we analyzed the effects in intestinal 
biopsies of patients with mild-to-moderate UC receiving oral PLC co-treatment and
in rat TNBS-induced colitis; in addition, we investigated antioxidant PLC action 
in TNF-α-stimulated human intestinal microvascular endothelial cells (HIMECs) in 
vitro.
RESULTS: Four-week PLC co-treatment reduced intestinal mucosal polymorph
infiltration and CD4(+) lymphocytes, ICAM-1(+) and iNOS(+) microvessels compared 
with placebo-treated patients with UC. Oral and intrarectal administration of PLC
but not L-carnitine or propionate reduced intestinal damage and microvascular
dysfunction in rat TNBS-induced acute and reactivated colitis. In cultured
TNF-α-stimulated HIMECs, PLC restored β-oxidation and counteracted NADPH oxidase 
4-generated oxidative stress-induced CAM expression and leukocyte adhesion.
Inhibition of β-oxidation by L-aminocarnitine increased reactive oxygen species
production and PLC beneficial effects on endothelial dysfunction and leukocyte
adhesion. Finally, PLC reduced iNOS activity and nitric oxide accumulation in rat
TNBS-induced colitis and in HIMEC cultures.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that the beneficial antioxidant effect of PLC
targeting intestinal microvasculature restores endothelial β-oxidation and
function, and reduces mucosal inflammation in UC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/ctg.2014.4 
PMCID: PMC3972692
PMID: 24646507 


77. J Surg Res. 2014 Jun 1;189(1):32-40. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2013.12.025. Epub 2014
Jan 3.

L-α-glycerylphosphorylcholine reduces the microcirculatory dysfunction and
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-oxidase type 4 induction after
partial hepatic ischemia in rats.

Hartmann P(1), Fet N(2), Garab D(1), Szabó A(1), Kaszaki J(1), Srinivasan PK(2), 
Tolba RH(2), Boros M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Surgical Research, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science and Experimental Surgery, RWTH Aachen
University, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Surgical Research, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
Electronic address: boros.mihaly@med.szote.u-szeged.hu.

BACKGROUND: We set out to investigate the microcirculatory consequences of
hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury and the effects of
L-alpha-glycerylphosphorylcholine (GPC), a deacylated phospholipid derivative, on
postischemic hepatocellular damage, with special emphasis on the expression of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase type 4 (NOX4), which is
predominantly expressed in hepatic microvessels.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Anesthetized male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to
60-min ischemia of the left liver lobes and 180-min reperfusion, with or without 
GPC treatment (50 mg/kg intravenously 5 min before reperfusion, n = 6 each). A
third group (n = 6) served as saline-treated control. Noninvasive online
examination of the hepatic microcirculation was performed hourly by means of
modified spectrometry. Plasma tumor necrosis factor (TNF-α), high-mobility group 
box 1 protein (HMGB1), plasma aspartate aminotransferase, alanine
aminotransferase and lactate dehydrogenase levels, tissue xanthine oxidoreductase
(XOR) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) activities, and expressions of NOX2 and NOX4
proteins were determined.
RESULTS: Liver IR resulted in significant increases in NOX2 and NOX4 expressions 
and XOR and MPO activities, and approximately 2-fold increases in the levels of
the inflammatory cytokines TNF-α and HMGB1. The microvascular blood flow and
tissue oxygen saturation decreased by ∼20% from control values. GPC
administration ameliorated the postischemic microcirculatory deterioration and
reduced the liver necroenzyme levels significantly; the NOX4 expression, MPO
activity, and HMGB1 level were also decreased, whereas the NOX2 expression, TNF-α
level, and XOR activity were not influenced by GPC pretreatment.
CONCLUSIONS: NOX4 activation is a decisive component in the IR-induced
microcirculatory dysfunction. Exogenous GPC ameliorates the inflammatory
activation, and preserves the postischemic microvascular perfusion and liver
functions, these effects being associated with a reduced hepatic expression of
NOX4.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2013.12.025 
PMID: 24636100  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 May 20;20(15):2347-60. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5204.

Manganese superoxide dismutase-mediated inside-out signaling in HaCaT human
keratinocytes and SKH-1 mouse skin.

Holley AK(1), Xu Y, Noel T, Bakthavatchalu V, Batinic-Haberle I, St Clair DK.

Author information: 
(1)1 Graduate Center for Toxicology, University of Kentucky , Lexington,
Kentucky.

AIMS: Inside-out signaling occurs when changes in organellar activity lead to
alterations in cell signaling that culminate at the cell surface. Mitochondria
are vital signaling platforms in cells that participate in radiation-induced
inside-out signaling. However, the importance of the reactive oxygen species
(ROS)-scavenging ability of mitochondria through manganese superoxide dismutase
(MnSOD) is not established. Here, we used MnSOD heterozygous knockout and
transgenic SKH-1 hairless, albino mice and MnSOD knockdown and overexpressing
HaCaT human keratinocytes to study the effects of MnSOD on ultraviolet (UV)
radiation-induced inside-out signaling.
RESULTS AND INNOVATION: There is an inverse correlation between MnSOD expression 
and UV-induced activation of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), as
determined by phosphorylation at Tyr1068, both in vitro and in vivo, which
correlates with increased ROS production (as measured by dihydroethidium
fluorescence). EGFR activation is dependent on Nox4 expression and Src kinase
activation, with Src activation upstream of Nox4 in regulation of EGFR
activation. Enhanced EGFR activation in MnSOD knockdown cells is abrogated by
treatment with the SOD mimetic MnTnBuOE-2-PyP(5+).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that the ROS-scavenging ability of
mitochondria, through the expression of MnSOD, is important for UV-induced
inside-out signaling. Decreased MnSOD expression enhances UV-induced activation
of different oncogenic signaling pathways through an inside-out
signaling-mediated mechanism. Inhibition of inside-out signaling by
MnTnBuOE-2-PyP(5+) mimics the effect of endogenous MnSOD, suggesting that
pharmacological intervention by SOD mimetics could play an important role in the 
prevention of aberrant cell signaling, which may contribute to carcinogenesis and
may prove valuable for the treatment or prevention of cancer in the future.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5204 
PMCID: PMC4005487
PMID: 24635018  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Aug;56:45-52. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.03.005. Epub 2014 Mar 
12.

The imbalanced redox status in senescent endothelial cells is due to dysregulated
Thioredoxin-1 and NADPH oxidase 4.

Goy C(1), Czypiorski P(2), Altschmied J(3), Jakob S(4), Rabanter LL(5), Brewer
AC(6), Ale-Agha N(7), Dyballa-Rukes N(8), Shah AM(9), Haendeler J(10).

Author information: 
(1)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
christinegoy100@gmail.com.
(2)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
czypiorski@gmail.com.
(3)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Joachim.Altschmied@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(4)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Sascha.Jakob@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(5)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Lothar.Rabanter@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(6)King's College London BHF Centre of Excellence, The James Black Centre, London
SE5 9NU, UK. Electronic address: alison.brewer@kcl.ac.uk.
(7)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Niloofar.Ale-Agha@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(8)IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at the University 
of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
Nadine.Dyballa@uni-duesseldorf.de.
(9)King's College London BHF Centre of Excellence, The James Black Centre, London
SE5 9NU, UK. Electronic address: ajay.shah@kcl.ac.uk.
(10)Central Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University
of Duesseldorf, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany; IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for 
Environmental Medicine at the University of Duesseldorf gGmbH, 40225 Duesseldorf,
Germany. Electronic address: juhae001@uni-duesseldorf.de.

Environmental stressors as well as genetic modifications are known to enhance
oxidative stress and aging processes. Mitochondrial and nuclear dysfunctions
contribute to the onset of aging. One of the most important redox regulators in
primary human endothelial cells is Thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1), a 12 kD protein with
additional anti-apoptotic properties. Cellular generators of reactive oxygen
species are NADPH oxidases (NOXs), of which NOX4 shows highest expression levels 
in endothelial cells. Therefore, the aim of the study was to investigate how
Trx-1 and NOX4 are regulated during stress-induced premature senescence in
endothelial cells. We treated primary human endothelial cells for two weeks with 
H2O2 to generate stress-induced premature senescence in these cells. In this
model senescence-associated β-Galactosidase and nuclear p21 as senescence markers
are increased. Moreover, total and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species
formation is enhanced. An imbalanced redox homeostasis is detected by elevated
NOX4 and decreased Trx-1 levels. This can be rescued by lentiviral expression of 
Trx-1. Moreover, the lysosomal protease Cathepsin D is over-activated, which
results in reduced Trx-1 protein levels. Inhibition of "over-active" Cathepsin D 
by the specific, cell-permeable inhibitor pepstatin A abolishes the increase in
nuclear p21 protein, ROS formation and degradation of Trx-1 protein, thus leading
to blockade of stress-induced premature senescence by stabilizing the cellular
redox homeostasis. Aortic Trx-1 levels are decreased and Cathepsin D activity is 
increased in NOX4 transgenic mice exclusively expressing NOX4 in the endothelium 
when compared to their wildtype littermates. Thus, loss of Trx-1 and upregulation
of NOX4 importantly contribute to the imbalance in the redox-status of senescent 
endothelial cells ex vivo and in vivo.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.03.005 
PMID: 24632182  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Int J Cardiol. 2014 May 1;173(2):236-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2014.02.041. Epub 
2014 Feb 28.

Calcitriol modulates receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) in
diabetic hearts.

Lee TW(1), Kao YH(2), Lee TI(3), Chang CJ(3), Lien GS(4), Chen YJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, Wan
Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of
Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei,
Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of Medical Education and Research, Wan
Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address:
yuhsunkao@gmail.com.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, Wan
Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Wan Fang
Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, College of Medicine, Taipei Medical
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Department of
Internal Medicine, Wan Fang Hospital, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: Receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) signaling pathway
plays a vital role in diabetic cardiovascular complications. Calcitriol has been 
shown to exert various beneficial cardiovascular effects. The purpose of this
study is to determine whether calcitriol can modulate RAGE expression, and study 
the potential mechanisms in diabetic hearts.
METHODS: Streptozotocin (65 mg/kg, intraperitoneal injection once) induced
diabetic rats were treated with or without subcutaneous injections of calcitriol 
at a dose of 150 ng/kg/day for 4 weeks. Western blot was used to evaluate protein
expressions of myocardial RAGE, TNF-α, p65 subunit of NF-κB (p65), α subunit of
inhibitor of κB (IκBα), subunits of NADPH oxidase (NOX4 and p22(phox)),
angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R), TGF-β1, TGF-β receptor I, total and
phosphorylated SMAD2/3 and ERK, matrix metalloproteinases 2 (MMP2), tissue
inhibitors of metalloproteinases 2 (TIMP2) and procollagen I.
RESULTS: As compared to control, diabetic rats had increased expressions of
cardiac RAGE, TNF-α, p22(phox), AT1R, and TGF-β1, which were significantly
attenuated in the diabetic rats treated with calcitriol. Calcitriol-treated
diabetic hearts also had lesser expressions of p-SMAD2/3 and p-ERK signaling than
those of diabetic hearts. Moreover, diabetic hearts had increased expressions of 
MMP2 and procollagen I and decreased TIMP2. However, calcitriol reverted the
diabetic effects in procollagen I but not in MMP2 or TIMP2.
CONCLUSIONS: Calcitriol decreased diabetic effects on RAGE and fibrosis, which
may be caused by its modulation on AT1R and the anti-inflammatory and
antioxidative potentials. Therefore, calcitriol may attenuate diabetic
cardiomyopathy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2014.02.041 
PMID: 24630381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Cell Mol Med. 2014 Jun;18(6):1172-83. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.12263. Epub 2014 Mar
13.

Transforming growth factor-β1 requires NADPH oxidase 4 for angiogenesis in vitro 
and in vivo.

Peshavariya HM(1), Chan EC, Liu GS, Jiang F, Dusting GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Department of Ophthalmology, University of 
Melbourne, East Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; O'Brien Institute, Fitzroy,
Victoria, Australia.

Angiogenesis, the formation of new blood vessels, is a key physiological event in
organ development and tissue responses to hypoxia but is also involved in
pathophysiologies such as tumour growth and retinopathies. Understanding the
molecular mechanisms involved is important to design strategies for therapeutic
intervention. One important regulator of angiogenesis is transforming growth
factor-β1 (TGF-β1). In addition, reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the
ROS-forming NADPH oxidase type 4 (Nox4) have been implicated as additional
regulators such as during hypoxia. Here, we show that both processes are indeed
mechanistically linked. TGF-β1-stimulated Nox4 expression and ROS formation in
endothelial cells. In cells from Nox4-deficient mice, TGF-β1-induced cell
proliferation, migration and tube formation were abolished. In vivo, TGF-β1
stimulated growth of blood vessels into sponges implanted subcutaneously, and
this angiogenesis was markedly reduced in Nox4 knockout mice. Thus, endothelial
cells are regulated by a TGF-β1 signalling pathway involving Nox4-derived ROS to 
promote angiogenesis. In order to abrogate pathological angiogenesis triggered by
a multitude of factors, such as TGF-β1 and hypoxia, Nox4 may thus be an ideal
therapeutic target.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.12263 
PMCID: PMC4508156
PMID: 24629065  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Redox Biol. 2014 Jan 9;2:400-10. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.12.017. eCollection
2014.

Robust rat pulmonary radioprotection by a lipophilic Mn N-alkylpyridylporphyrin, 
MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+).

Gauter-Fleckenstein B(1), Reboucas JS(2), Fleckenstein K(1), Tovmasyan A(2),
Owzar K(3), Jiang C(4), Batinic-Haberle I(2), Vujaskovic Z(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC 27710, USA ; Department of Radiation Oncology, Universitätsmedizin Mannheim,
Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, Mannheim, Germany.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC 27710, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Duke University Medical
Center, Durham, USA ; Biostatistics and Computational Biology Core, RadCCORE,
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, USA.
(4)Biostatistics and Computational Biology Core, RadCCORE, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, USA.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
NC 27710, USA ; Division of Translational Radiation Sciences, Department of
Radiation Oncology, University of Maryland, 655W Baltimore Street, Bressler
Research Building, 8-025, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.

With the goal to enhance the distribution of cationic Mn porphyrins within
mitochondria, the lipophilic
Mn(III)meso-tetrakis(N-n-hexylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin, MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+) has
been synthesized and tested in several different model of diseases, where it
shows remarkable efficacy at as low as 50 µg/kg single or multiple doses. Yet, in
a rat lung radioprotection study, at higher 0.6-1 mg/kg doses, due to its high
accumulation and micellar character, it became toxic. To avoid the toxicity,
herein the pulmonary radioprotection of MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+) was assessed at
50 µg/kg. Fischer rats were irradiated to their right hemithorax (28 Gy) and
treated with 0.05 mg/kg/day of MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+) for 2 weeks by
subcutaneously-implanted osmotic pumps, starting at 2 h post-radiation. The body 
weights and breathing frequencies were followed for 10 weeks post-radiation, when
the histopathology and immunohistochemistry were assessed. Impact of
MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+) on macrophage recruitment (ED-1), DNA oxidative damage
(8-OHdG), TGF-β1, VEGF(A) and HIF-1α were measured. MnTnHex-2-PyP(5+)
significantly decreased radiation-induced lung histopathological (H&E staining)
and functional damage (breathing frequencies), suppressed oxidative stress
directly (8-OHdG), or indirectly, affecting TGF-β1, VEGF (A) and HIF-1α pathways.
The magnitude of the therapeutic effects is similar to the effects demonstrated
under same experimental conditions with 120-fold higher dose of ~5000-fold less
lipophilic Mn(III)meso-tetrakis(N-ethylpyridinium-2-yl)porphyrin, MnTE-2-PyP(5+).

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2013.12.017 
PMCID: PMC3949096
PMID: 24624330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Mol Vis. 2014 Mar 3;20:231-41. eCollection 2014.

Endothelial NADPH oxidase 4 mediates vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 
2-induced intravitreal neovascularization in a rat model of retinopathy of
prematurity.

Wang H(1), Yang Z(1), Jiang Y(1), Hartnett ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)The John A. Moran Eye Center, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT.

PURPOSE: NADPH oxidase-generated reactive oxygen species (ROS) are implicated in 
angiogenesis. Isoforms of NADPH oxidase NOX1, NOX2, and NOX4 are reported to be
expressed in endothelial cells (ECs). Of these, NOX1 and NOX2 have been reported 
to contribute to intravitreal neovascularization (IVNV) in oxygen-induced
retinopathy (OIR) models. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that the
isoform NOX4 in ECs contributed to vascular endothelial growth factor
(VEGF)-induced angiogenesis and IVNV.
METHODS: Isoforms of NADPH oxidase MRNA were measured in several types of
cultured vascular ecs: human retinal microvascular ECs (hRMVECs), choroidal ECs
(CECs), and human umbilical vascular ECs (HUVECs) using real-time PCR. Newborn
rat pups and dams were placed into an OIR model that cycled oxygen concentration 
between 50% and 10% every 24 h for 14 days, and then were placed in room air (RA)
for an additional 4 days (rat OIR model). NOX4 expression in retinal lysates from
the RA-raised pups at postnatal day 0 (P0), P14, and P18 was determined with
western blots. STAT3 activation was determined as the ratio of phosphorylated
STAT3 to total STAT3 with western blot analysis of retinal lysates from pups
raised in RA or from the rat OIR model at P18. Semiquantitative assessment of the
density of NOX4 colabeling with lectin-stained retinal ECs was determined by
immunolabeling of retinal cryosections from P18 pups in OIR or in RA. In hRMVECs 
transfected with NOX4 siRNA and treated with VEGF or control, 1) ROS generation
was measured using the 5-(and-6)-chloromethyl-2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein
diacetate, acetyl ester fluorescence assay and 2) phosphorylated VEGF receptor 2 
and STAT3, and total VEGFR2 and STAT3 were measured in western blot analyses.
VEGF-stimulated hRMVEC proliferation was measured following transfection with
NOX4 siRNA or STAT3 siRNA, or respective controls.
RESULTS: NOX4 was the most prevalent isoform of NADPH oxidase in vascular ECs.
NOX4 expression in retinal lysates was significantly decreased during development
in RA. Compared to RA, the expression of retinal NOX4 increased at P18. At p18
OIR, semiquantitative assessment of the density of lectin and NOX4 colabeling in 
retinal vascular ECs was greater in retinal cryosections and activated STAT3 was 
greater in retinal lysates when compared to the RA-raised pups. In cultured
hRMVECs, knockdown of NOX4 by siRNA transfection inhibited VEGF-induced ROS
generation. VEGF induced a physical interaction of phosphorylated-VEGFR2 and
NOX4. Knockdown of NOX4: 1) reduced VEGFR2 activation but did not abolish it and 
2) abolished STAT3 activation in response to VEGF. Knockdown of either NOX4 or
STAT3 inhibited VEGF-induced EC proliferation.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that in a model representative of human retinopathy
of prematurity, NOX4 was increased at a time point when IVNV developed.
VEGF-activated NOX4 led to an interaction between VEGF-activated VEGFR2 and NOX4 
that mediated EC proliferation via activation of STAT3. Altogether, our results
suggest that NOX4 may regulate VEGFR2-mediated IVNV through activated STAT3.


PMCID: PMC3945806
PMID: 24623966  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Atheroscler Thromb. 2014;21(8):768-83. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Luteolin protects HUVECs from TNF-α-induced oxidative stress and inflammation via
its effects on the Nox4/ROS-NF-κB and MAPK pathways.

Xia F(1), Wang C, Jin Y, Liu Q, Meng Q, Liu K, Sun H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Dalian Medical
University.

AIM: Inflammation and oxidative stress are now recognized to be two important
contributing factors to the development of atherosclerosis(AS). NADPH oxidase-4
(Nox4)-derived reactive oxygen species(ROS), NF-κB and MAPK play crucial roles in
these processes. Luteolin, a flavone rich in many plants, can interrupt the
molecular expression and inhibit the progression of inflammation and oxidative
stress. The present study was designed to test whether luteolin inhibits
TNF-α-induced inflammation and oxidative stress in human umbilical vein
endothelial cells(HUVECs) and identify some of the mechanisms underlying these
effects.
METHODS: HUVECs were treated with luteolin in the presence/absence of TNF-α. The 
mechanism of luteolin against TNF-α-induced cell injury was evaluated using
Western blotting, real-time RT-PCR and flow cytometry analyses.
RESULTS: Luteolin suppressed the TNF-α-activated ROS generation, as well as the
Nox4, p22phox, and ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression. Luteolin also enhanced the Bcl-2
and reduced caspase-3, -9 expression in the TNF-α-treated HUVECs. Finally,
luteolin inhibited the TNF-α-induced transcriptional activity of NF-κB and p38 in
addition to ERK1/2 phosphorylation. The inhibitors and siRNA of Nox4 and NF-κB
not only reduced ROS generation, p38, ERK1/2 phosphorylation and the ICAM-1 and
VCAM-1 expression, but also enhanced Bcl-2 expression. The inhibitor of p38 had
the same effect on the expression of ICAM-1, VCAM-1 and Bcl-2, while the
inhibitor of ERK1/2 increased the Bcl-2 expression rather than reducing the
ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Luteolin attenuates TNF-α-induced oxidative stress and inflammation 
via its effects on the Nox4/ROS-NF-κB and MAPK pathways. These results suggest
that luteolin may provide a beneficial effect in treating vascular diseases
associated with oxidative stress and inflammation.


PMID: 24621786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Chin J Integr Med. 2015 Apr;21(4):259-65. doi: 10.1007/s11655-014-1832-4. Epub
2014 Mar 6.

Panax notoginseng saponins inhibits atherosclerotic plaque angiogenesis by
down-regulating vascular endothelial growth factor and nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide phosphate oxidase subunit 4 expression.

Qiao Y(1), Zhang PJ, Lu XT, Sun WW, Liu GL, Ren M, Yan L, Zhang JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Qilu Hospital, Shandong
University, Jinan, 250012, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the mechanism of Panax notoginseng saponins (PNS), an
effective component extracted from Panax notoginseng, on atherosclerotic plaque
angiogenesis in atherosclerosis-prone apolipoprotein E-knockout (ApoE-KO) mice
fed with high-fat, high-cholesterol diet.
METHODS: Twenty ApoE-KO mice were divided into two groups, the model group and
the PNS group. Ten normal C57BL/6J mice were used as a control group. PNS (60
mg/kg) was orally administered daily for 12 weeks in the PNS group. The ratio of 
plaque area to vessel area was examined by histological staining. The tissue
sample of aortic root was used to detect the CD34 and vascular endothelial growth
factor (VEGF) expression areas by immunohistochemistry. The expression of VEGF
and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase subunit 4 (NOX4) were
measured by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting 
respectively.
RESULTS: After treatment with PNS, the plaque areas were decreased (P<0.05). CD34
expressing areas and VEGF expression areas in plaques were significantly
decreased (P<0.05). Meanwhile, VEGF and NOX4 mRNA expression were decreased after
treatment with PNS. VEGF and NOX4 protein expression were also decreased by about
72% and 63%, respectively (P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: PNS, which decreases VEGF and NOX4 expression, could alleviate plaque
angiogenesis and attenuate atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-014-1832-4 
PMID: 24599820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 5;9(3):e90133. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090133. eCollection 
2014.

Nanostring-based multigene assay to predict recurrence for gastric cancer
patients after surgery.

Lee J(1), Sohn I(2), Do IG(3), Kim KM(4), Park SH(1), Park JO(1), Park YS(1), Lim
HY(1), Sohn TS(5), Bae JM(5), Choi MG(5), Lim DH(6), Min BH(7), Lee JH(7), Rhee
PL(7), Kim JJ(7), Choi DI(8), Tan IB(9), Das K(10), Tan P(11), Jung SH(2), Kang
WK(1), Kim S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical
Center Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Samsung Cancer Research Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Samsung Cancer Research Institute, Samsung Medical Center, Seoul, Korea;
Department of Pathology, Samsung Medical Center Sungkyunkwan University School of
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Samsung Medical Center Sungkyunkwan University School
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Department of Surgery, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(7)Department of Gastroenterology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(8)Department of Radiology, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(9)Cancer and Stem Cell Biology, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore,
Singapore.
(10)Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(11)Cancer and Stem Cell Biology, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore,
Singapore; Genome Institute of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; Cancer Science
Institute of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

Despite the benefits from adjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy,
approximately one-third of stage II gastric cancer (GC) patients developed
recurrences. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a prognostic
algorithm for gastric cancer (GCPS) that can robustly identify high-risk group
for recurrence among stage II patients. A multi-step gene expression profiling
study was conducted. First, a microarray gene expression profiling of archived
paraffin-embedded tumor blocks was used to identify candidate prognostic genes
(N=432). Second, a focused gene expression assay including prognostic genes was
used to develop a robust clinical assay (GCPS) in stage II patients from the same
cohort (N=186). Third, a predefined cut off for the GCPS was validated using an
independent stage II cohort (N=216). The GCPS was validated in another set with
stage II GC who underwent surgery without adjuvant treatment (N=300). GCPS was
developed by summing the product of Cox regression coefficients and normalized
expression levels of 8 genes (LAMP5, CDC25B, CDK1, CLIP4, LTB4R2, MATN3, NOX4,
TFDP1). A prospectively defined cut-point for GCPS classified 22.7% of validation
cohort treated with chemoradiotherapy (N=216) as high-risk group with 5-year
recurrence rate of 58.6% compared to 85.4% in the low risk group (hazard ratio
for recurrence=3.16, p=0.00004). GCPS also identified high-risk group among stage
II patients treated with surgery only (hazard ratio=1.77, p=0.0053).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090133 
PMCID: PMC3943911
PMID: 24598828  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Cell Death Differ. 2014 Jun;21(6):998-1012. doi: 10.1038/cdd.2014.16. Epub 2014
Feb 28.

Oncogene-induced reactive oxygen species fuel hyperproliferation and DNA damage
response activation.

Ogrunc M(1), Di Micco R(1), Liontos M(2), Bombardelli L(1), Mione M(1), Fumagalli
M(1), Gorgoulis VG(3), d'Adda di Fagagna F(4).

Author information: 
(1)IFOM Foundation, The FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology Foundation, via
Adamello 16, Milan, Italy.
(2)Molecular Carcinogenesis Group, Department of Histology and Embryology, School
of Medicine, University of Athens, 75 Mikras Asias Street, Goudi, 11527 Athens,
Greece.
(3)1] Molecular Carcinogenesis Group, Department of Histology and Embryology,
School of Medicine, University of Athens, 75 Mikras Asias Street, Goudi, 11527
Athens, Greece [2] Basic Science II Center, Biomedical Research Foundation of the
Academy of Athens, 4 Soranou Ephessiou Street, 11527 Athens, Greece.
(4)1] IFOM Foundation, The FIRC Institute of Molecular Oncology Foundation, via
Adamello 16, Milan, Italy [2] Istituto di Genetica Molecolare, Consiglio
Nazionale delle Ricerche, via Abbiategrasso 207, Pavia, Italy.

Oncogene-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been proposed to be signaling
molecules that mediate proliferative cues. However, ROS may also cause DNA damage
and proliferative arrest. How these apparently opposite roles can be reconciled, 
especially in the context of oncogene-induced cellular senescence, which is
associated both with aberrant mitogenic signaling and DNA damage response
(DDR)-mediated arrest, is unclear. Here, we show that ROS are indeed mitogenic
signaling molecules that fuel oncogene-driven aberrant cell proliferation.
However, by their very same ability to mediate cell hyperproliferation, ROS
eventually cause DDR activation. We also show that oncogenic Ras-induced ROS are 
produced in a Rac1 and NADPH oxidase (Nox4)-dependent manner. In addition, we
show that Ras-induced ROS can be detected and modulated in a living transparent
animal: the zebrafish. Finally, in cancer we show that Nox4 is increased in both 
human tumors and a mouse model of pancreatic cancer and specific Nox4
small-molecule inhibitors act synergistically with existing chemotherapic agents.

DOI: 10.1038/cdd.2014.16 
PMCID: PMC4013514
PMID: 24583638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. CNS Neurosci Ther. 2014 May;20(5):452-9. doi: 10.1111/cns.12233. Epub 2014 Mar 2.

Angiotensin converting enzyme 2/Ang-(1-7)/mas axis protects brain from ischemic
injury with a tendency of age-dependence.

Zheng JL(1), Li GZ, Chen SZ, Wang JJ, Olson JE, Xia HJ, Lazartigues E, Zhu YL,
Chen YF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Wright State University Boonshoft
School of Medicine, Dayton, OH, USA; Department of Neurology, the Second Hospital
of Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China.

BACKGROUND: The angiotensin (Ang) converting enzyme 2 (ACE2)/Ang-(1-7)/Mas
receptor pathway is an important component of the renin-angiotensin system and
has been suggested to exert beneficial effects in ischemic stroke.
AIMS: This study explored whether the ACE2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas pathway has a protective
effect on cerebral ischemic injury and whether this effect is affected by age.
METHODS: We used three-month and eight-month transgenic mice with neural
over-expression of ACE2 (SA) and their age-matched nontransgenic (NT) controls.
Neurological deficits and ischemic stroke volume were determined following middle
cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). In oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD)
experiments on brain slices, the effects of the Mas receptor agonist (Ang1-7) or 
antagonist (A779) on tissue swelling, Nox2/Nox4 expression reactive oxygen
species (ROS) production and cell death were measured.
RESULTS: (1) Middle cerebral artery occlusion -induced ischemic injury and
neurological deficit were reduced in SA mice, especially in eight-month animals; 
(2) OGD-induced tissue swelling and cell death were decreased in SA mice with a
greater reduction seen in eight-month mice; (3) Ang-(1-7) and A779 had opposite
effects on OGD-induced responses, which correlated with changes in Nox2/Nox4
expression and ROS production.
CONCLUSIONS: Angiotensin converting enzyme 2/Ang-(1-7)/Mas axis protects brain
from ischemic injury via the Nox/ROS signaling pathway, with a greater effect in 
older animals.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cns.12233 
PMCID: PMC4840841
PMID: 24581232  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Endocrinol. 2014 Apr 22;221(2):R31-40. doi: 10.1530/JOE-13-0588. Print 2014
May.

Sexual dimorphism and thyroid dysfunction: a matter of oxidative stress?

Fortunato RS(1), Ferreira AC, Hecht F, Dupuy C, Carvalho DP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Radiobiology, Carlos Chagas Filho Institute of
Biophysics, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Avenida Carlos Chagas Filho,
373, CCS - Bloco G - Subsolo - Sala G0-031, Cidade Universitária - Ilha do
Fundão, 21941-902 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil Laboratory of Endocrine Physiology, 
Carlos Chagas Filho Institute of Biophysics, Federal University of Rio de
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil Mixed Unity of Research (UMR) 8200 - Genomes 
and Cancer, The Gustave Roussy Institute of Integrated Cancer Research, Villejuif
F-94805, France.

Thyroid diseases, such as autoimmune disease and benign and malignant nodules,
are more prevalent in women than in men, but the mechanisms involved in this sex 
difference is still poorly defined. H₂O₂ is produced at high levels in the
thyroid gland and regulates parameters such as cell proliferation, migration,
survival, and death; an imbalance in the cellular oxidant-antioxidant system in
the thyroid may contribute to the greater incidence of thyroid disease among
women. Recently, we demonstrated the existence of a sexual dimorphism in the
thyrocyte redox balance, characterized by higher H₂O₂ production, due to higher
NOX4 and Poldip2 expression, and weakened enzymatic antioxidant defense in the
thyroid of adult female rats compared with male rats. In addition, 17β-estradiol 
administration increased NOX4 mRNA expression and H₂O₂ production in thyroid
PCCL3 cells. In this review, we discuss the possible involvement of oxidative
stress in estrogen-related thyroid pathophysiology. Our current hypothesis
suggests that a redox imbalance elicited by estrogen could be involved in the sex
differences found in the prevalence of thyroid dysfunctions.

DOI: 10.1530/JOE-13-0588 
PMID: 24578296  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Diabetol Metab Syndr. 2014 Feb 28;6(1):29. doi: 10.1186/1758-5996-6-29.

Effect of exenatide on the cardiac expression of adiponectin receptor 1 and NADPH
oxidase subunits and heart function in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.

Guo Z(1), Qi W, Yu Y, Du S, Wu J, Liu J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Second Hospital, Shanxi Medical University, 382
Wuyi Road, Taiyuan 030001, Shanxi, P,R China. zhxguo1966@aliyun.com.

BACKGROUND: This study investigated the effect of exenatide on the cardiac
expression of adiponectin receptor 1 and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
phosphate (NADPH) oxidase subunits and heart function in streptozotocin-induced
diabetic rats.
METHODS: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into four groups, i.e.
control group, diabetic group, diabetic treated with low doses of exenatide
(2 μg · kg-1.d-1) and diabetic treated with high doses of exenatide
(10 μg · kg-1.d-1). Diabetes was induced by intraperitoneal injection of
streptozotocin (65 mg/kg body weight). At the termination after exenatide
treatment for eight weeks, following anesthesia of the rats, a catheter was
inserted into the left ventricle through the right common carotid artery for
measurement of left ventricular pressure, which included left ventricular
systolic pressure (LVSP), left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) and the
maximal rate of rise and decline of ventricular pressure (±dp/dt[max]). Plasma
and myocardial adiponectin levels, and the expressions of myocardial adiponectin 
receptor 1, p22phox, NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4), glucose transporter type 4 (Glut4), 
AMPK-α, phosphorylated-AMPK-α, connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and copper 
zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu-Zn-SOD) were assayed.
RESULTS: Heart function, plasma adiponectin levels, the protein expression of
myocardial phosphorylated-AMPK-α, the mRNA expression of myocardial Glut4, and
the positive expression of myocardial Cu-Zn-SOD were significantly decreased in
diabetic. The protein expression of myocardial adiponectin receptor 1, the mRNA
expression of myocardial p22phox and NOX4, and the positive expression of
myocardial CTGF were significantly increased in diabetic. Low and high doses of
exenatide treatment significantly attenuated these changes in diabetic rats.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that exenatide may contribute to the
improvement of the heart function in diabetic rats by down-regulating the
expression of myocardial adiponectin receptor 1, p22phox and NOX4, and
up-regulating plasma adiponectin level and the expression of myocardial AMPK-α,
Glut4 and Cu-Zn-SOD.

DOI: 10.1186/1758-5996-6-29 
PMCID: PMC3942060
PMID: 24576329 


91. J Neuroinflammation. 2014 Feb 27;11:36. doi: 10.1186/1742-2094-11-36.

The role of Nox2-derived ROS in the development of cognitive impairment after
sepsis.

Hernandes MS(1), D'Avila JC, Trevelin SC, Reis PA, Kinjo ER, Lopes LR,
Castro-Faria-Neto HC, Cunha FQ, Britto LR, Bozza FA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of São Paulo, São Paulo,
Brazil. marinash@icb.usp.br.

BACKGROUND: Sepsis- associated encephalopathy (SAE) is an early and common
feature of severe infections. Oxidative stress is one of the mechanisms
associated with the pathophysiology of SAE. The goal of this study was to
investigate the involvement of NADPH oxidase in neuroinflammation and in the
long-term cognitive impairment of sepsis survivors.
METHODS: Sepsis was induced in WT and gp91(phox) knockout mice (gp91(phox-/-)) by
cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) to induce fecal peritonitis. We measured
oxidative stress, Nox2 and Nox4 gene expression and neuroinflammation in the
hippocampus at six hours, twenty-four hours and five days post-sepsis. Mice were 
also treated with apocynin, a NADPH oxidase inhibitor. Behavioral outcomes were
evaluated 15 days after sepsis with the inhibitory avoidance test and the Morris 
water maze in control and apocynin-treated WT mice.
RESULTS: Acute oxidative damage to the hippocampus was identified by increased
4-HNE expression in parallel with an increase in Nox2 gene expression after
sepsis. Pharmacological inhibition of Nox2 with apocynin completely inhibited
hippocampal oxidative stress in septic animals. Pharmacologic inhibition or the
absence of Nox2 in gp91(phox-/-) mice prevented glial cell activation, one of the
central mechanisms associated with SAE. Finally, treatment with apocynin and
inhibition of hippocampal oxidative stress in the acute phase of sepsis prevented
the development of long-term cognitive impairment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that Nox2 is the main source of reactive
oxygen species (ROS) involved in the oxidative damage to the hippocampus in SAE
and that Nox2-derived ROS are determining factors for cognitive impairments after
sepsis. These findings highlight the importance of Nox2-derived ROS as a central 
mechanism in the development of neuroinflammation associated with SAE.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-2094-11-36 
PMCID: PMC3974031
PMID: 24571599  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Gene. 2014 Apr 25;540(1):62-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.026. Epub 2014 Feb 21.

A far-upstream AP-1/Smad binding box regulates human NOX4 promoter activation by 
transforming growth factor-β.

Bai G(1), Hock TD(1), Logsdon N(1), Zhou Y(1), Thannickal VJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294, USA.
(2)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Department of
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294, USA. Electronic address: vjthan@uab.edu.

NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) is a member of the NADPH oxidase gene family that
regulates cellular differentiation, innate immunity and tissue fibrosis.
Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β1) is known to induce expression of NOX4 mRNA 
in mesenchymal cells. However, the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation of
NOX4 are not well understood. In this study, we examined the transcriptional
regulation of NOX4 in human lung fibroblasts by TGF-β1. Five promoter-reporter
constructs containing DNA fragments of 0.74kb, 1.35kb, 1.84kb, 3.97kb and 4.76kb 
upstream from the transcriptional start site (TSS) of the human NOX4 gene were
generated and their relative responsiveness to TGF-β1 analyzed. TGF-β1-induced
NOX4 gene promoter activation requires a region between -3.97kb and -4.76kb.
Bioinformatics analysis revealed a 15bp AP-1/Smad binding element in this region.
Mutation or deletion of either the AP-1 or the Smad element attenuated TGF-β1
responsiveness of the -4.76kb NOX4 promoter. Furthermore, insertion of this
AP-1/Smad box conferred TGF-β1 inducibility to the non-responsive -3.97kb NOX4
promoter construct. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis indicated that
phospho-Smad3 and cJun associate with this element in a TGF-β1-inducible manner. 
These results demonstrate that the AP-1/Smad box located between 3.97kb and
4.76kb upstream of the TSS site of the NOX4 promoter is essential for NOX4 gene
transcription induced by TGF-β1 in human lung fibroblasts. Our study provides
insights into the molecular mechanisms of NOX4 gene expression, informing novel
therapeutic approaches to interfere with upregulation of NOX4 in diseases
characterized by activation of the TGF-β1/NOX4 pathway.

Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.02.026 
PMCID: PMC4009368
PMID: 24560583  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Pulm Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Aug;28(2):138-48. doi: 10.1016/j.pupt.2014.02.001. Epub
2014 Feb 11.

Roflumilast N-oxide inhibits bronchial epithelial to mesenchymal transition
induced by cigarette smoke in smokers with COPD.

Milara J(1), Peiró T(2), Serrano A(3), Guijarro R(4), Zaragozá C(5), Tenor H(6), 
Cortijo J(7).

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Research Unit (UIC), University General Hospital Consortium,
Valencia, Spain; Department of Biotechnology, Universidad Politécnica de
Valencia, Spain; Research Foundation of General Hospital of Valencia, Spain.
Electronic address: xmilara@hotmail.com.
(2)Research Foundation of General Hospital of Valencia, Spain; Department of
Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Valencia, Spain.
(3)Research Foundation of General Hospital of Valencia, Spain; CIBERES, Health
Institute Carlos III, Valencia, Spain.
(4)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Valencia, Spain;
Thoracic Surgery Unit, University General Hospital Consortium, Valencia, Spain.
(5)UCMA, University General Hospital Consortium, Valencia, Spain.
(6)Takeda Pharmaceuticals International, Zürich, Switzerland.
(7)Clinical Research Unit (UIC), University General Hospital Consortium,
Valencia, Spain; Research Foundation of General Hospital of Valencia, Spain;
Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Valencia, Spain;
CIBERES, Health Institute Carlos III, Valencia, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is under discussion as a
potential mechanism of small airway remodelling in COPD. In bronchial epithelium 
of COPD and smokers markers of EMT were described. In vitro, EMT may be
reproduced by exposing well-differentiated human bronchial epithelial cells
(WD-HBEC) to cigarette smoke extract (CSE). EMT may be mitigated by an increase
in cellular cAMP.
OBJECTIVE: This study explored the effects of roflumilast N-oxide, a PDE4
inhibitor on CSE-induced EMT in WD-HBEC and in primary bronchial epithelial cells
from smokers and COPD in vitro.
METHODS: WD-HBEC from normal donors were stimulated with CSE (2.5%) for 72 h in
presence of roflumilast N-oxide (2 nM or 1 μM) or vehicle. mRNA and protein of
EMT markers αSMA, vimentin, collagen-1, E-cadherin, ZO-1, KRT5 as well as NOX4
were quantified by real-time quantitative PCR or protein array, respectively.
Phosphorylated and total ERK1/2 and Smad3 were assessed by protein array. cAMP
and TGFβ1 were measured by ELISA. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined
by DCF fluorescence, after 30 min CSE (2.5%). Apoptosis was measured with Annexin
V/PI labelling. In some experiments, EMT markers were determined in monolayers of
bronchial epithelial cells from smokers, COPD versus controls.
RESULTS: Roflumilast N-oxide protected from CSE-induced EMT in WD-HBEC. The PDE4 
inhibitor reversed both the increase in mesenchymal and the loss in epithelial
EMT markers. Roflumilast N-oxide restored the loss in cellular cAMP following
CSE, reduced ROS, NOX4 expression, the increase in TGFβ1 release, phospho ERK1/2 
and Smad3. The PDE4 inhibitor partly protected from the increment in apoptosis
with CSE. Finally the PDE4 inhibitor decreased mesenchymal yet increased
epithelial phenotype markers in HBEC of COPD and smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Roflumilast N-oxide may mitigate epithelial-mesenchymal transition
in bronchial epithelial cells in vitro.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pupt.2014.02.001 
PMID: 24525294  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Food Chem Toxicol. 2014 May;67:72-9. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2014.02.004. Epub 2014
Feb 10.

High concentrations of genistein exhibit pro-oxidant effects in primary muscle
cells through mechanisms involving 5-lipoxygenase-mediated production of reactive
oxygen species.

Chen W(1), Lin YC(2), Ma XY(3), Jiang ZY(4), Lan SP(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
(South China) of Ministry of Agriculture, Guangzhou, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Guangzhou, PR China; Guangdong
Public Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China;
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China.
Electronic address: cwei010230@163.com.
(2)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
(South China) of Ministry of Agriculture, Guangzhou, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Guangzhou, PR China; Guangdong
Public Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China;
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China.
Electronic address: lyc0123@tom.com.
(3)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
(South China) of Ministry of Agriculture, Guangzhou, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Guangzhou, PR China; Guangdong
Public Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China;
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China.
Electronic address: xianyongm@gmail.com.
(4)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
(South China) of Ministry of Agriculture, Guangzhou, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Guangzhou, PR China; Guangdong
Public Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China;
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China.
Electronic address: jiangz41@163.com.
(5)Institute of Animal Science, Guangdong Academy of Agricultural Sciences,
Guangzhou, PR China; The Key Laboratory of Animal Nutrition and Feed Science
(South China) of Ministry of Agriculture, Guangzhou, PR China; State Key
Laboratory of Livestock and Poultry Breeding, Guangzhou, PR China; Guangdong
Public Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China;
Guangdong Key Laboratory of Animal Breeding and Nutrition, Guangzhou, PR China.
Electronic address: 619836899@qq.com.

Genistein, a typical soy isoflavone, is an important antioxidant for improving
human health and animal production but the compound possesses some pro-oxidant
potential. In order to explore the latter, the dose-response relationship of
various concentrations of genistein on both cellular proliferation and the redox 
system were examined. The proliferation of primary muscle cells was promoted by a
low concentration of genistein but was inhibited by high concentrations, which
also enhanced lipid oxidation and suppressed membrane fluidity. By selecting a
high concentration (200 μM) as a pro-oxidant treatment, the mechanism underlying 
the pro-oxidant function of genistein was then explored. The generation of
intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) was stimulated by 200 μM genistein,
with inhibited expression of NADPH oxidase 4 and cyclooxygenase 1 and 2 as well
as increased activity of the glutathione redox system. The cellular expression of
5-lipoxygenase, however, was up-regulated by 200 μM genistein and the addition of
5-lipoxygenase inhibitor (Zileuton) decreased genistein-induced intracellular ROS
level, close to that from the addition of the ROS scavenger, N-acetylcysteine. It
is concluded that higher concentrations of genistein exert pro-oxidant potential 
in the primary muscle cells through enhancing ROS production in a
5-lipoxygenase-dependent manner.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2014.02.004 
PMID: 24525097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Reprod Sci. 2014 Sep;21(9):1145-52. doi: 10.1177/1933719114522552. Epub 2014 Feb 
11.

Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase is differentially regulated
in normal myometrium versus leiomyoma.

Fletcher NM(1), Saed MG(1), Abuanzeh S(1), Abu-Soud HM(1), Al-Hendy A(2), Diamond
MP(3), Saed GM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, 
USA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Meharry Medical College, Nashville,
TN, USA.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, 
GA, USA.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, 
USA gsaed@med.wayne.edu.

Uterine fibroids are the most common benign tumor in women. The goal of this
study was to investigate whether nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
oxidase (NOX), a major source of superoxide and subsequent oxidative stress, was 
differentially regulated in myometrium versus leiomyoma. Expression levels of
NOXs1-5, dual oxidase (DUOX), DUOX2, NOX organizer (NOXO) 1, NOX activator 1,
p47(phox), p67(phox), and p22(phox) were determined in cells treated with hypoxia
by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and
immunohistochemistry in tissues. Expression of NOX4 increased in fibroid compared
to myometrial tissues and cells. The NOX2, DUOX1, and p67(phox) were higher while
p22(phox) was lower in fibroid than that in myometrial cells. Hypoxia increased
NOX4, DUOX1, and NOXO1 and decreased p22(phox) in myometrial and reduced DUOX1 in
fibroid cells. The NOX1, NOX3, NOX5, and DUOX2 were undetectable. Fibroid cells
are characterized by a unique NOX profile, which promotes a severe prooxidant
state that may be responsible for their development. Targeting these subunits may
be beneficial for future therapeutic interventions.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1933719114522552 
PMCID: PMC5933080
PMID: 24520084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Reprod Sci. 2014 Aug;21(8):1050-1059. Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate Oxidase Expression Is Differentially 
Regulated to Favor a Pro-oxidant State That Contributes to Postoperative Adhesion
Development.

Fletcher NM(1), Abuanzeh S(1), Saed MG(1), Diamond MP(2), Abu-Soud HM(1), Saed
GM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, 
USA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Georgia Regents University, Augusta, 
GA, USA.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI, 
USA gsaed@med.wayne.edu.

We have previously reported that superoxide (O2•-) contributes to the development
of postoperative adhesions. In this study, we determined whether O2•- generating 
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NOX) is differentially
expressed in normal peritoneal and adhesion fibroblasts and tissues. The NOX
isoforms were measured utilizing Western blot, immunohistochemistry,
high-performance liquid chromatography, and real-time reverse transcription
polymerase chain reaction. Expression and activity of NOX were found to be
significantly higher in adhesion tissues and cells than that in normal peritoneal
tissues and cells (P < .05). Levels of NOX2, NOX4, NOX activating protein 1,
DUOX1, p47phox, and p22phox messenger RNA increased in adhesion fibroblasts when 
compared to normal peritoneal and increased in response to hypoxia in normal
peritoneal fibroblasts. Thus, adhesion fibroblasts are characterized by a unique 
NOX expression profile, which maintains a pro-oxidant state that may be
responsible for the persistence of the adhesion phenotype. Decreasing the
activity of NOX by targeting these isoforms may be beneficial for future
therapeutic interventions of postoperative adhesions.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1933719114522524 
PMCID: PMC5933105
PMID: 24516041 


97. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2015 Aug 10;23(5):375-405. doi: 10.1089/ars.2014.5862.
Epub 2014 Mar 24.

NOX2 As a Target for Drug Development: Indications, Possible Complications, and
Progress.

Diebold BA(1), Smith SM(2), Li Y(1), Lambeth JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of 
Medicine , Atlanta, Georgia.
(2)2 Department of Biology and Physics, Kennesaw State University , Kennesaw,
Georgia.

SIGNIFICANCE: NOX2 is important for host defense, and yet is implicated in a
large number of diseases in which inflammation plays a role in pathogenesis.
These include acute and chronic lung inflammatory diseases, stroke, traumatic
brain injury, and neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and
Parkinson's Diseases.
RECENT ADVANCES: Recent drug development programs have targeted several NOX
isoforms that are implicated in a variety of diseases. The focus has been
primarily on NOX4 and NOX1 rather than on NOX2, due, in part, to concerns about
possible immunosuppressive side effects. Nevertheless, NOX2 clearly contributes
to the pathogenesis of many inflammatory diseases, and its inhibition is
predicted to provide a novel therapeutic approach.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Possible side effects that might arise from targeting NOX2 are
discussed, including the possibility that such inhibition will contribute to
increased infections and/or autoimmune disorders. The state of the field with
regard to existing NOX2 inhibitors and targeted development of novel inhibitors
is also summarized.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: NOX2 inhibitors show particular promise for the treatment of
inflammatory diseases, both acute and chronic. Theoretical side effects include
pro-inflammatory and autoimmune complications and should be considered in any
therapeutic program, but in our opinion, available data do not indicate that they
are sufficiently likely to eliminate NOX2 as a drug target, particularly when
weighed against the seriousness of many NOX2-related indications. Model studies
demonstrating efficacy with minimal side effects are needed to encourage future
development of NOX2 inhibitors as therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2014.5862 
PMCID: PMC4545678
PMID: 24512192  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2014 Jun;25(6):1237-54. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2013070810. Epub 2014 
Feb 7.

Genetic targeting or pharmacologic inhibition of NADPH oxidase nox4 provides
renoprotection in long-term diabetic nephropathy.

Jha JC(1), Gray SP(2), Barit D(2), Okabe J(3), El-Osta A(3), Namikoshi T(4),
Thallas-Bonke V(2), Wingler K(5), Szyndralewiez C(6), Heitz F(6), Touyz RM(7),
Cooper ME(1), Schmidt HH(5), Jandeleit-Dahm KA(8).

Author information: 
(1)Diabetic Complications Division, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Danielle Alberti Memorial Centre for Diabetic Complications, Baker IDI Heart &
Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Department of Medicine,
Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;
(2)Diabetic Complications Division, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Danielle Alberti Memorial Centre for Diabetic Complications, Baker IDI Heart &
Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;
(3)Human Epigenetics Laboratory, Baker IDI Heart & Diabetes Institute, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia;
(4)Diabetic Complications Division, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Danielle Alberti Memorial Centre for Diabetic Complications, Baker IDI Heart &
Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Department of Nephrology and 
Hypertension, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, Japan;
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht,
Faculty of Medicine, Health & Life Science, Maastricht University, Maastricht,
The Netherlands;
(6)Genkyotex SA, Geneva, Switzerland;
(7)Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; and Institute of 
Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United
Kingdom.
(8)Diabetic Complications Division, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
Danielle Alberti Memorial Centre for Diabetic Complications, Baker IDI Heart &
Diabetes Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Department of Medicine,
Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia;
karin.jandeleit-dahm@bakeridi.edu.au.

Diabetic nephropathy may occur, in part, as a result of intrarenal oxidative
stress. NADPH oxidases comprise the only known dedicated reactive oxygen species 
(ROS)-forming enzyme family. In the rodent kidney, three isoforms of the
catalytic subunit of NADPH oxidase are expressed (Nox1, Nox2, and Nox4). Here we 
show that Nox4 is the main source of renal ROS in a mouse model of diabetic
nephropathy induced by streptozotocin administration in ApoE(-/-) mice. Deletion 
of Nox4, but not of Nox1, resulted in renal protection from glomerular injury as 
evidenced by attenuated albuminuria, preserved structure, reduced glomerular
accumulation of extracellular matrix proteins, attenuated glomerular macrophage
infiltration, and reduced renal expression of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 
and NF-κB in streptozotocin-induced diabetic ApoE(-/-) mice. Importantly,
administration of the most specific Nox1/4 inhibitor, GKT137831, replicated these
renoprotective effects of Nox4 deletion. In human podocytes, silencing of the
Nox4 gene resulted in reduced production of ROS and downregulation of
proinflammatory and profibrotic markers that are implicated in diabetic
nephropathy. Collectively, these results identify Nox4 as a key source of ROS
responsible for kidney injury in diabetes and provide proof of principle for an
innovative small molecule approach to treat and/or prevent chronic kidney
failure.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2013070810 
PMCID: PMC4033375
PMID: 24511132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Pflugers Arch. 2014 Nov;466(11):2049-57. doi: 10.1007/s00424-014-1459-5. Epub
2014 Feb 8.

Bone morphogenetic protein-4 induces upregulation of Cav3.1 Ca²⁺ channels in HL-1
atrial myocytes.

Hu CW(1), Li Q, Zhang Y, Li YH, Jiang HC, Liu MY, Li SL, Han W, Dong DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology (State-Province Key Laboratories of
Biomedicine-Pharmaceutics of China, Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Research,
Ministry of Education), Harbin Medical University, Baojian Road 157, Harbin,
150086, Heilongjiang Province, People's Republic of China.

Cardiac T-type Ca(2+) channels are reexpressed in atrial and ventricular myocytes
under various pathological conditions such as post-myocardial infarction,
hypertrophy, and heart failure, but relatively little is known about the
mechanisms. Our previous study found that bone morphogenetic protein-4 (BMP4) was
reexpressed in pathological cardiac hypertrophy models and BMP4-mediated
cardiomyocyte hypertrophy. We hypothesized that BMP4 could upregulate cardiac
T-type Ca(2+) channels in HL-1 atrial myocytes. The T-type Ca(2+) currents were
recorded by using the patch-clamp technique, and the expressions of Cav3.1 and
Cav3.2 were measured by real-time PCR method in HL-1 cells. BMP4 and Cav3.1 mRNA 
expressions increased in the left atrium from the pressure overload-induced
hypertrophy of mice hearts. BMP4 treatment for 48 h induced increase of Cav3.1
but not Cav3.2 mRNA expression in HL-1 cells, and the increase was inhibited by
BMP4 inhibitor noggin. Acute treatment with BMP4 did not affect T-type Ca(2+)
currents, but chronic treatment (48 h) significantly increased the amplitude of
T-type Ca(2+) currents in HL-1 cells. Chronic treatment with BMP4 induced
upregulation of NADPH oxidase-4 (NOX4), increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS)
level, and activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)-activated
protein kinases c-jun N-terminal kinases (JNK) and p38. BMP4-induced upregulation
of Cav3.1 mRNA was inhibited by NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin, the radical
scavenger tempol, JNK inhibitor SP600125, and p38 inhibitor SB203580. In
conclusion, BMP4 induces upregulation of Cav3.1 Ca(2+) channels and T-type Ca(2+)
currents in HL-1 atrial myocytes through ROS/MAPK pathways.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-014-1459-5 
PMID: 24510064  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Apr;69:338-47. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.01.040. Epub 2014 Feb 6.

The NADPH oxidase NOX4 inhibits hepatocyte proliferation and liver cancer
progression.

Crosas-Molist E(1), Bertran E(1), Sancho P(1), López-Luque J(1), Fernando J(1),
Sánchez A(2), Fernández M(2), Navarro E(1), Fabregat I(3).

Author information: 
(1)Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 08908
Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular II, Facultad de Farmacia,
Universidad Complutense, Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Hospital
Clínico San Carlos, 28080 Madrid, Spain.
(3)Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, 08908
Barcelona, Spain; Departament de Ciències Fisiològiques II, Universitat de
Barcelona, Campus de Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address:
ifabregat@idibell.cat.

The NADPH oxidase NOX4 has emerged as an important source of reactive oxygen
species in signal transduction, playing roles in physiological and pathological
processes. NOX4 mediates transforming growth factor-β-induced intracellular
signals that provoke liver fibrosis, and preclinical assays have suggested NOX4
inhibitors as useful tools to ameliorate this process. However, the potential
consequences of sustained treatment of liver cells with NOX4 inhibitors are yet
unknown. The aim of this work was to analyze whether NOX4 plays a role in
regulating liver cell growth either under physiological conditions or during
tumorigenesis. In vitro assays proved that stable knockdown of NOX4 expression in
human liver tumor cells increased cell proliferation, which correlated with a
higher percentage of cells in S/G2/M phases of the cell cycle, downregulation of 
p21(CIP1/WAF1), increase in cyclin D1 protein levels, and nuclear localization of
β-catenin. Silencing of NOX4 in untransformed human and mouse hepatocytes also
increased their in vitro proliferative capacity. In vivo analysis in mice
revealed that NOX4 expression was downregulated under physiological proliferative
situations of the liver, such as regeneration after partial hepatectomy, as well 
as during pathological proliferative conditions, such as
diethylnitrosamine-induced hepatocarcinogenesis. Xenograft experiments in athymic
mice indicated that NOX4 silencing conferred an advantage to human
hepatocarcinoma cells, resulting in earlier onset of tumor formation and increase
in tumor size. Interestingly, immunochemical analyses of NOX4 expression in human
liver tumor cell lines and tissues revealed decreased NOX4 protein levels in
liver tumorigenesis. Overall, results described here strongly suggest that NOX4
would play a growth-inhibitory role in liver cells.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.01.040 
PMID: 24509161  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 31;9(1):e88024. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088024. eCollection
2014.

Lactate regulates rat male germ cell function through reactive oxygen species.

Galardo MN(1), Regueira M(1), Riera MF(1), Pellizzari EH(1), Cigorraga SB(1),
Meroni SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Endocrinológicas "Dr. César Bergadá", Consejo
Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET), Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

Besides giving structural support, Sertoli cells regulate the fate of germ cells 
by supplying a variety of factors. These factors include hormones, several pro-
and anti-apoptotic agents and also energetic substrates. Lactate is one of the
compounds produced by Sertoli cells, which is utilized as an energetic substrate 
by germ cells, particularly spermatocytes and spermatids. Beyond its function as 
an energy source, some studies have proposed a role of lactate in the regulation 
of gene expression not strictly related to the energetic state of the cells. The 
general hypothesis that motivated this investigation was that lactate affects
male germ cell function, far beyond its well-known role as energetic substrate.
To evaluate this hypothesis we investigated: 1) if lactate was able to regulate
germ cell gene expression and if reactive oxygen species (ROS) participated in
this regulation, 2) if different signal transduction pathways were modified by
the production of ROS in response to lactate and 3) possible mechanisms that may 
be involved in lactate stimulation of ROS production. In order to achieve these
goals, cultures of germ cells obtained from male 30-day old rats were exposed to 
10 or 20 mM lactate. Increases in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) C and
monocarboxylate transporter (MCT)2 expression, in Akt and p38-MAPK
phosphorylation levels and in ROS production were observed. These effects were
impaired in the presence of a ROS scavenger. Lactate stimulated ROS production
was also inhibited by a LDH inhibitor or a NAD(P)H oxidase (NOX) inhibitor. NOX4 
expression was identified in male germ cells. The results obtained herein are
consistent with a scenario where lactate, taken up by germ cells, becomes
oxidized to pyruvate with the resultant increase in NADH, which is a substrate
for NOX4. ROS, products of NOX4 activity, may act as second messengers regulating
signal transduction pathways and gene expression.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088024 
PMCID: PMC3909278
PMID: 24498241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Redox Biol. 2014 Jan 20;2:267-72. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.012. eCollection
2014.

NADPH oxidase-dependent redox signaling in TGF-β-mediated fibrotic responses.

Jiang F(1), Liu GS(2), Dusting GJ(2), Chan EC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and Function Research, Qilu
Hospital, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong 250012, China.
(2)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, VIC 3002,
Australia ; Department of Ophthalmology, University of Melbourne, VIC 3002,
Australia.
(3)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, VIC 3002,
Australia.

Uncontrolled fibrosis in organs like heart, kidney, liver and lung is detrimental
and may lead to end-stage organ failure. Currently there is no effective
treatment for fibrotic disorders. Transforming growth factor (TGF)-β has a
fundamental role in orchestrating the process of fibrogenesis; however,
interventions directly targeting TGF-β would have undesired systemic side effects
due to the multiple physiological functions of TGF-β. Further characterization of
the downstream signaling pathway(s) involved in TGF-β-mediated fibrosis may lead 
to discovery of novel treatment strategies for fibrotic disorders. Accumulating
evidence suggests that Nox4 NADPH oxidase may be an important downstream effector
in mediating TGF-β-induced fibrosis, while NADPH oxidase-dependent redox
signaling may in turn regulate TGF-β/Smad signaling in a feed-forward manner. It 
is proposed that pharmacological inhibition of the Nox4 function may represent a 
novel approach in treatment of fibrotic disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.012 
PMCID: PMC3909817
PMID: 24494202  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Redox Biol. 2014 Jan 11;2:259-66. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.003. eCollection
2014.

Ursolic acid protects monocytes against metabolic stress-induced priming and
dysfunction by preventing the induction of Nox4.

Ullevig SL(1), Kim HS(2), Nguyen HN(3), Hambright WS(4), Robles AJ(5), Tavakoli
S(6), Asmis R(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Kinesiology, Health, and Nutrition, University of Texas at San
Antonio, United States.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, University of Texas Health Science
Center, San Antonio, United States.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Texas Health Science Center, San
Antonio, United States.
(4)Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, University of Texas Health
Science Center, San Antonio, United States.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San
Antonio, United States.
(6)Department of Radiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San
Antonio, United States.
(7)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, University of Texas Health Science
Center, San Antonio, United States ; Department of Biochemistry, University of
Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, United States ; Department of
Radiology, University of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, United States.

AIMS: Dietary supplementation with ursolic acid (UA) prevents monocyte
dysfunction in diabetic mice and protects mice against atherosclerosis and loss
of renal function. The goal of this study was to determine the molecular
mechanism by which UA prevents monocyte dysfunction induced by metabolic stress.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Metabolic stress sensitizes or "primes" human THP-1
monocytes and murine peritoneal macrophages to the chemoattractant MCP-1,
converting these cells into a hyper-chemotactic phenotype. UA protected THP-1
monocytes and peritoneal macrophages against metabolic priming and prevented
their hyper-reactivity to MCP-1. UA blocked the metabolic stress-induced increase
in global protein-S-glutathionylation, a measure of cellular thiol oxidative
stress, and normalized actin-S-glutathionylation. UA also restored MAPK
phosphatase-1 (MKP1) protein expression and phosphatase activity, decreased by
metabolic priming, and normalized p38 MAPK activation. Neither metabolic stress
nor UA supplementation altered mRNA or protein levels of glutaredoxin-1, the
principal enzyme responsible for the reduction of mixed disulfides between
glutathione and protein thiols in these cells. However, the induction of Nox4 by 
metabolic stress, required for metabolic priming, was inhibited by UA in both
THP-1 monocytes and peritoneal macrophages.
CONCLUSION: UA protects THP-1 monocytes against dysfunction by suppressing
metabolic stress-induced Nox4 expression, thereby preventing the Nox4-dependent
dysregulation of redox-sensitive processes, including actin turnover and
MAPK-signaling, two key processes that control monocyte migration and adhesion.
This study provides a novel mechanism for the anti-inflammatory and athero- and
renoprotective properties of UA and suggests that dysfunctional blood monocytes
may be primary targets of UA and related compounds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2014.01.003 
PMCID: PMC3909821
PMID: 24494201  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Autophagy. 2014 Apr;10(4):699-701. doi: 10.4161/auto.27955. Epub 2014 Jan 31.

NOX4 regulates autophagy during energy deprivation.

Sciarretta S(1), Volpe M(2), Sadoshima J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute; Department of Cell Biology and Molecular
Medicine; Rutgers New Jersey Medical School; Newark, NJ USA; IRCCS Neuromed;
Pozzilli (IS), Italy.
(2)IRCCS Neuromed; Pozzilli (IS), Italy; Department of Clinical and Molecular
Medicine; School of Medicine and Psicology; University "Sapienza"; Rome, Italy.
(3)Cardiovascular Research Institute; Department of Cell Biology and Molecular
Medicine; Rutgers New Jersey Medical School; Newark, NJ USA.

NADPH oxidase is a cellular enzyme devoted to the production of reactive oxygen
species (ROS). NOX4 and NOX2 are the main isoforms of NADPH oxidase in the
cardiovascular system. In our recent study, we demonstrated that NOX4, but not
NOX2, is a critical mediator of the cardiomyocyte adaptive response to energy
stress. NOX4 activity and protein levels are increased in the endoplasmic
reticulum (ER) but not in mitochondria of cardiomyocytes during the early phase
of energy deprivation. NOX4-derived production of ROS in the ER is a critical
event that activates autophagy through stimulation of the
EIF2AK3/PERK-EIF2S1/eIF-2α-ATF4 pathway. NOX4-dependent autophagy is an important
mechanism to preserve cellular energy and limit cell death in energy-deprived
cardiomyocytes. Aside from elucidating a crucial physiological function of NOX4
during cellular energy stress, our study dissects a novel signaling mechanism
that regulates autophagy under this condition.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.27955 
PMCID: PMC4091158
PMID: 24492492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Cardiovasc Pharmacol. 2014 Jun;63(6):567-76. doi: 10.1097/FJC.0000000000000082.

Inhibition of NOX/VPO1 pathway and inflammatory reaction by trimethoxystilbene in
prevention of cardiovascular remodeling in hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertensive
rats.

Liu B(1), Luo XJ, Yang ZB, Zhang JJ, Li TB, Zhang XJ, Ma QL, Zhang GG, Hu CP,
Peng J.

Author information: 
(1)*Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South 
University, Changsha, China; †Hunan Provincial Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular
Research, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South University, Changsha, 
China; and ‡Department of Cardiology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University,
Changsha, China.

Recent studies show that resveratrol exerts beneficial effects on prevention of
pulmonary hypertension. This study is performed to explore the effects of
trimethoxystilbene, a novel resveratrol analog, on rat pulmonary vascular
remodeling and right ventricular hypertrophy in hypoxia-induced pulmonary
arterial hypertension (PAH) and the underlying mechanisms. Sprague-Dawley rats
were placed in a chamber and exposed to 10% O(2) continuously for 4 weeks to
induce PAH. The effects of trimethoxystilbene (5 or 10 mg/kg per day,
intragastric [i.g.]) and resveratrol (as a positive control, 25 mg/kg per day,
i.g.) on hypoxia-induced PAH vascular remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy 
were evaluated. At the end of experiments, the index for pulmonary vascular
remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy, inflammatory cell infiltration in
lung tissue, the plasma levels and lung tissue contents of hydrogen peroxide
(H(2)O(2)), the mRNA and protein levels for NADPH oxidases (NOX2, NOX4) and
vascular peroxidase 1 (VPO1) in pulmonary artery or right ventricle were
measured. The results showed that trimethoxystilbene treatment significantly
attenuated hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling (such as decrease in the
ratio of wall thickness to vessel external diameter) and right ventricle
hypertrophy (such as decrease in the ratio of right ventricle weight to the
length of the tibia), accompanied by downregulation of NOX2, NOX4, and VPO1
expression in pulmonary artery or right ventricle, decrease in H(2)O(2)
production and inflammatory cell infiltration in lung tissue. Trimethoxystilbene 
is able to prevent pulmonary vascular remodeling and right ventricle hypertrophy 
in hypoxia-induced rat model of PAH, which is related to inhibition of the
NOX/VPO1 pathway-mediated oxidative stress and the inflammatory reaction.

DOI: 10.1097/FJC.0000000000000082 
PMID: 24492474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cell Immunol. 2014 Feb;287(2):129-35. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2013.12.009. Epub
2014 Jan 10.

Inhibition of Notch signaling leads to increased intracellular ROS by
up-regulating Nox4 expression in primary HUVECs.

Cai WX(1), Liang L(2), Wang L(2), Han JT(1), Zhu XX(1), Han H(3), Hu DH(4), Zhang
P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Burns and Cutanous Surgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military
Medical University, Xi'an 710038, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, Department of Medical Genetics and
Developmental Biology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710038, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, Department of Medical Genetics and
Developmental Biology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710038, China.
Electronic address: huahan@fmmu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Burns and Cutanous Surgery, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military
Medical University, Xi'an 710038, China. Electronic address: hudahai@fmmu.edu.cn.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, Department of Medical Genetics and
Developmental Biology, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 710038, China.
Electronic address: pingzhang0622@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Cell Immunol. 2014 May-Jun;289(1-2):191.

The essential roles of Notch pathway in angiogenesis have been reported for
years. However, how Notch pathway plays its role in regulating endothelial cells 
remains largely unknown. In this study we found that blockade of Notch signaling 
with a γ-secretase inhibitor increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) in primary
human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) under both normaxic and
ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) conditions. Abruption of ROS generation with ROS
scavengers or specific inhibitors of ROS production in HUVECs abolished Notch
blockade-induced HUVEC proliferation, migration and adhesion, suggesting that the
regulation of Notch pathway on endothelial cell behavior is at least partially
dependent on its down-regulation of ROS level. We further showed that the
enhanced generation of ROS after blocking Notch signal was accompanied by
augmented expression of Nox4, which led to increased phosphorylation of VEGFR2
and ERK in HUVECs. In summary, our results have shown that Notch signaling
regulates ROS generation by suppressing Nox4, and further modulates endothelial
cell proliferation, migration and adhesion.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2013.12.009 
PMID: 24491913  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2014 Jan 31;13:30. doi: 10.1186/1475-2840-13-30.

Azilsartan, an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker, restores endothelial
function by reducing vascular inflammation and by increasing the phosphorylation 
ratio Ser(1177)/Thr(497) of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in diabetic mice.

Matsumoto S, Shimabukuro M(1), Fukuda D, Soeki T, Yamakawa K, Masuzaki H, Sata M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardio-Diabetes Medicine, The University of Tokushima Graduate
School of Health Biosciences, 3-18-15 Kuramoto, Tokushima 770-8503, Japan.
mshimabukuro-ur@umin.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Azilsartan, an angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor blocker (ARB),
has a higher affinity for and slower dissociation from AT1 receptors and shows
stronger inverse agonism compared to other ARBs. Possible benefits of azilsartan 
in diabetic vascular dysfunction have not been established.
METHODS: We measured vascular reactivity of aortic rings in male KKAy diabetic
mice treated with vehicle, 0.005% azilsartan, or 0.005% candesartan cilexetil for
3 weeks. Expression of markers of inflammation and oxidative stress was measured 
using semiquantitative RT-PCR in the vascular wall, perivascular fat, and
skeletal muscle. Phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) at
Ser1177 and Thr495 was measured using Western blotting, and the ratio of
phosphorylation at Ser1177 to phosphorylation at Thr495 was used as a putative
indicator of vascular eNOS activity.
RESULTS: (1) Vascular endothelium-dependent relaxation with acetylcholine in KKAy
mice was improved by azilsartan treatment compared to candesartan cilexetil; (2) 
the ratio of Ser1177/Thr495 phosphorylation of eNOS was impaired in KKAy and was 
effectively restored by azilsartan; (3) anomalies in the expression levels of
monocyte chemotactic protein 1 (MCP1), F4/80, NAD(P)H oxidase (Nox) 2, and Nox4
of the aortic wall and in the expression of TNFα in the perivascular fat were
strongly attenuated by azilsartan compared to candesartan cilexetil.
CONCLUSIONS: These results provide evidence that azilsartan prevents endothelial 
dysfunction in diabetic mice, more potently than does candesartan cilexetil.
Azilsartan's higher affinity for and slower dissociation from AT1 receptors may
underlie its efficacy in diabetic vascular dysfunction via a dual effect on
uncoupled eNOS and on Nox.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2840-13-30 
PMCID: PMC3916073
PMID: 24485356  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Mol Cancer Ther. 2014 Apr;13(4):833-41. doi: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-13-0688. Epub 
2014 Jan 30.

The NADPH oxidase inhibitor imipramine-blue in the treatment of Burkitt lymphoma.

Klingenberg M(1), Becker J, Eberth S, Kube D, Wilting J.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Departments of Anatomy and Cell Biology and Hematology 
and Oncology, University Medicine Goettingen, Goettingen, Germany.

Burkitt lymphoma is a rare malignancy arising from B cells. Current
chemotherapeutic regimens achieve excellent overall survival rates in children,
but less impressive rates in adults. There are cases with poor outcome caused by 
toxic effects of the therapy, tumor lysis syndrome, or metastatic spread of
lymphomas to the central nervous system. Modulators of reactive oxygen species
are currently discussed as potential drugs for the treatment of cancer. The NADPH
oxidase 4 inhibitor imipramine-blue might satisfy the aforementioned
requirements, and was studied here. We used MTT assay, crystal violet assay, and 
thymidine 3H-incorporation assay to analyze the effects of imipramine-blue on
Burkitt lymphoma (BL2, BL2B95, BL30B95, BL41B95), neuroblastoma (KELLY, SH-SY5Y, 
SMS-KAN), cervix carcinoma (HeLa), breast cancer (MDA-MB231), angiosarcoma
(AS-M), human embryonic kidney (HEK293WT), and nonmalignant (FLP1) cell lines.
The effects of imipramine-blue on BL2B95 cells in vivo were investigated in
xenografts on the chick chorioallantoic membrane (CAM). We report that
imipramine-blue is a potent growth inhibitor for several cancer cell lines in
vitro with IC(50) values comparable to those of doxorubicin (0.16-7.7 μmol/L).
Tumor size of BL2B95 cells inoculated in the CAM was reduced significantly (P <
0.05) after treatment with 10 μmol/L imipramine-blue. Lymphogenic dissemination
of BL2B95 and the formation of blood and lymphatic vessels in experimental tumors
were not affected. We show that imipramine-blue can be used to decrease the
viability of cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo. Imipramine-blue reduces the 
size of experimental Burkitt lymphoma significantly but does not affect the
dissemination of BL2B95 cells, angiogenesis, and lymphangiogenesis.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-13-0688 
PMID: 24482381  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2014 Apr;34(4):768-78. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.113.302847. Epub 2014 Jan 30.

Group VIA phospholipase A2 mediates enhanced macrophage migration in diabetes
mellitus by increasing expression of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate 
oxidase 4.

Tan C(1), Day R, Bao S, Turk J, Zhao QD.

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Medicine, University of Texas Health Science Center,
San Antonio (C.T., R.D., Q.D.Z.); and Department of Medicine, Washington
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO (S.B., J.T.).

OBJECTIVE: We previously demonstrated that nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
phosphate oxidase 4 (Nox4) mediates increased monocyte priming and chemotaxis
under conditions of diabetic metabolic stress, and emerging data indicate that
group VIA phospholipase A2 (iPLA2β) also participates in regulating monocyte
chemotaxis. Here, we examined relationships between iPLA2β expression and Nox4
action in mouse peritoneal macrophages subjected to diabetic metabolic stress.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: Increased iPLA2β expression and activity were observed in
macrophages from low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout mice that were fed a
high-fat diet, and this was associated with time-dependent increases in
atherosclerotic lesion size and macrophage content. Incubating macrophages with
30 mmol/L D-glucose, 100 μg/mL low-density lipoprotein, or both
(D-glucose+low-density lipoprotein) induced a robust increase in iPLA2β
expression and activity and in cell migration in response to monocyte
chemoattractant protein-1. The increases in iPLA2β activity and cell migration
were prevented by a bromoenol lactone iPLA2β suicide inhibitor or an iPLA2β
antisense oligonucleotide. Incubating macrophages under conditions that mimic
diabetic metabolic stress ex vivo resulted in increased Nox4 expression and
activity and hydrogen peroxide generation compared with controls. Bromoenol
lactone prevented those effects without affecting Nox2 expression. Nox4
inhibition eliminated diabetic metabolic stress-induced acceleration of
macrophage migration. Lysophosphatidic acid restored Nox4 expression, hydrogen
peroxide generation, and migration to bromoenol lactone-treated cells, and a
lysophosphatidic acid receptor antagonist abrogated iPLA2β-mediated increases in 
Nox4 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these observations identify iPLA2β and
lysophosphatidic acid derived from its action as critical in regulating
macrophage Nox4 activity and migration in the diabetic state in vivo and under
similar conditions ex vivo.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.113.302847 
PMCID: PMC3966950
PMID: 24482376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Apr;69:278-88. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.01.027. Epub 2014 Jan 28.

NADPH oxidase 4 promotes cardiac microvascular angiogenesis after
hypoxia/reoxygenation in vitro.

Wang J(1), Hong Z(1), Zeng C(1), Yu Q(2), Wang H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University,
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710032, China.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University,
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710032, China. Electronic address: yuqiujun@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University,
Xi'an, Shaanxi 710032, China. Electronic address: wanghc@fmmu.edu.cn.

Microvascular endothelial cell dysfunction plays a key role in myocardial
ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury, wherein reactive oxygen species
(ROS)-dependent signaling is intensively involved. However, the roles of the
various ROS sources remain unclear. This study sought to investigate the role of 
NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) in the cardiac microvascular endothelium in response to
I/R injury. Adult rat cardiac microvascular endothelial cells (CMECs) were
isolated and subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R). Our results showed that
Nox4 was highly expressed in CMECs, was significantly increased at both mRNA and 
protein levels after H/R injury, and contributed to H/R-stimulated increase in
Nox activity and ROS generation. Downregulation of Nox4 by small interfering RNA 
transfection did not affect cell viability or ROS production under normoxia, but 
exacerbated H/R injury as evidenced by increased apoptosis and inhibited cell
survival, migration, and angiogenesis after H/R. Nox4 inhibition also increased
prolyl hydroxylase 2 (PHD2) expression and blocked H/R-induced increases in
HIF-1α and VEGF expression. Pretreatment with DMOG, a specific competitive PHD
inhibitor, upregulated HIF-1α and VEGF expression and significantly reversed Nox4
knockdown-induced injury. However, Nox2 was scarcely expressed and played a
minimal role in CMEC survival and angiogenesis after H/R, though a modest
upregulation of Nox2 was observed. In conclusion, this study demonstrated a
previously unrecognized protective role of Nox4, a ROS-generating enzyme and the 
major Nox isoform in CMECs, against H/R injury by inhibiting apoptosis and
promoting migration and angiogenesis via a PHD2-dependent upregulation of
HIF-1/VEGF proangiogenic signaling.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.01.027 
PMID: 24480752  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Am Heart Assoc. 2014 Jan 27;3(1):e000555. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.113.000555.

Elimination of NADPH oxidase activity promotes reductive stress and sensitizes
the heart to ischemic injury.

Yu Q(1), Lee CF, Wang W, Karamanlidis G, Kuroda J, Matsushima S, Sadoshima J,
Tian R.

Author information: 
(1)Mitochondria and Metabolism Center, Department of Anesthesiology & Pain
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

BACKGROUND: The NADPH oxidase family (Nox) produces reactive oxygen species by
adding the electron donated by NADPH to oxygen. Excessive reactive oxygen species
production under a variety of pathological conditions has been attributed to
increased Nox activity. Here, we aimed at investigating the role of Nox in
cardiac ischemic injury through gain- and loss-of-function approaches.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We modulated Nox activity in the heart by cardiac-specific
expression of Nox4 and dominant negative Nox4. Modulation of Nox activity
drastically changes the cellular redox status. Increasing Nox activity by
cardiac-specific overexpression of Nox4 imposed oxidative stress on the
myocardium [increased NAD(P)(+)/NAD(P)H and decreased glutathione/glutathione
disulfide ratio] and worsened cardiac energetics and contractile function after
ischemia-reperfusion. Overexpression of the dominant negative Nox4 (DN), which
abolished the Nox function, led to a markedly reduced state [decreased
NAD(P)(+)/NAD(P)H and increased glutathione/glutathione disulfide ratio] at
baseline and paradoxically promoted mitochondrial reactive oxygen species
production during ischemia resulting in no recovery of heart function after
reperfusion. Limiting the generation of reducing equivalent through modulating
carbon substrates availability partially restored the NAD(+)/NADH ratio and
protected dominant negative Nox4 hearts from ischemic injury.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals an important role of Nox in cardiac redox
regulation and highlights the complexity of developing therapies that affect the 
intricately connected redox states.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.113.000555 
PMCID: PMC3959718
PMID: 24470522  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Hypertension. 2014 Apr;63(4):846-55. doi: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.113.01772. Epub
2014 Jan 27.

Natriuretic peptide receptor-C attenuates hypertension in spontaneously
hypertensive rats: role of nitroxidative stress and Gi proteins.

Li Y(1), Sarkar O, Brochu M, Anand-Srivastava MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Montreal, C.P.
6128, Succ. Centre-ville, Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.
madhu.anand-srivastava@umontreal.ca.

Comment in
    Hypertension. 2014 Apr;63(4):661-2.

C-Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP)4-23, a ring deleted analog of ANP that
specifically interacts with natriuretic peptide receptor-C (NPR-C), has been
shown to decrease the enhanced expression of Giα proteins implicated in the
pathogenesis of hypertension. In the present study, we investigated whether in
vivo treatment of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) with C-ANP4-23 could
attenuate the development of high blood pressure (BP) and explored the underlying
mechanisms responsible for this response. Intraperitoneal injection of C-ANP4-23 
at the concentration of 2 or 10 nmol/kg body weight to prehypertensive SHRs
attenuated the development of high BP, and at 8 weeks it was decreased by ≈20 and
50 mm Hg, respectively; however, this treatment did not affect BP in Wistar-Kyoto
rats. C-ANP4-23 treatment of adult SHRs for 2 weeks also attenuated high BP,
heart rate, and restored the impaired vasorelaxation toward control levels. In
addition, the enhanced levels of superoxide anion (O2(-)), peroxynitrite, NADPH
oxidase activity, and the enhanced expression of Giα proteins, NOX4, p47(phox),
nitrotyrosine, and decreased levels of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS or
NOS3) and NO in SHRs were attenuated by C-ANP4-23 treatment; however, the altered
levels of NPR-A/NPR-C were not affected by this treatment. In conclusion, these
results indicate that NPR-C activation by C-ANP4-23 attenuates the development of
high BP in SHRs through the inhibition of enhanced levels of Giα proteins and
nitroxidative stress and not through eNOS/cGMP pathway and suggest that NPR-C
ligand may have the potential to be used as therapeutic agent in the treatment of
cardiovascular complications including hypertension.

DOI: 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.113.01772 
PMID: 24470461  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 23;9(1):e87239. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087239. eCollection
2014.

NADPH oxidase 4 deficiency reduces aquaporin-2 mRNA expression in cultured renal 
collecting duct principal cells via increased PDE3 and PDE4 activity.

Féraille E(1), Dizin E(1), Roth I(1), Derouette JP(1), Szanto I(2), Martin PY(3),
de Seigneux S(3), Hasler U(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Cellular Physiology and Metabolism, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(2)Departments of Cellular Physiology and Metabolism, University Medical Center, 
Geneva, Switzerland ; Service of Endocrinology, Diabetology, Hypertension and
Nutrition, Department of Medical Specialties, University of Geneva, Geneva,
Switzerland.
(3)Service of Nephrology, Department of Medical Specialties, University of
Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

The final control of renal water reabsorption occurs in the collecting duct (CD) 
and relies on regulated expression of aquaporin-2 (AQP2) in principal CD cells.
AQP2 transcription is primarily induced by type 2 vasopressin receptor
(V2R)-cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) signaling but also by other factors, including 
TonEBP and NF-κB. NAPDH oxidase 4 (NOX4) represents a major source of reactive
oxygen species (ROS) in the kidney. Because NOX-derived ROS may alter PKA, TonEBP
and NF-κB activity, we examined the effects of NOX4 depletion on AQP2 expression.
Depleted NOX4 expression by siRNA (siNOX4) in mpkCCDcl4 cells attenuated
increased AQP2 mRNA expression by arginine vasopressin (AVP) but not by
hypertonicity, which induces both TonEBP and NF-κB activity. AVP-induced AQP2
expression was similarly decreased by the flavoprotein inhibitor
diphenyleneiodonium. siNOX4 altered neither TonEBP nor NF-κB activity but
attenuated AVP-inducible cellular cAMP concentration, PKA activity and CREB
phosphorylation as well as AQP2 mRNA expression induced by forskolin, a potent
activator of adenylate cyclase. The repressive effect of siNOX4 on AVP-induced
AQP2 mRNA expression was abolished by the non-selective phosphodiesterase (PDE)
inhibitor 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX) and was significantly decreased by
selective PDE antagonists cilostamide and rolipram, but not vinpocetine, which
respectively target PDE3, PDE4 and PDE1. Thus, by inhibiting PDE3 and PDE4
activity NOX4-derived ROS may contribute to V2R-cAMP-PKA signaling and enhance
AQP2 transcription.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087239 
PMCID: PMC3900718
PMID: 24466344  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Cell Death Dis. 2014 Jan 23;5:e1010. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2013.551.

Nox4 and redox signaling mediate TGF-β-induced endothelial cell apoptosis and
phenotypic switch.

Yan F(1), Wang Y(1), Wu X(1), Peshavariya HM(2), Dusting GJ(2), Zhang M(1), Jiang
F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Cardiovascular Remodeling and Function Research, Qilu
Hospital, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China.
(2)Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne, East Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.

Transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) triggers apoptosis in endothelial cells,
while the mechanisms underlying this action are not entirely understood. Using
genetic and pharmacological tools, we demonstrated that TGF-β induced a moderate 
apoptotic response in human cultured endothelial cells, which was dependent upon 
upregulation of the Nox4 NADPH oxidase and production of reactive oxygen species 
(ROS). In contrast, we showed that ectopic expression of Nox4 via viral vectors
(vNox4) produced an antiapoptotic effect. TGF-β caused ROS-dependent p38
activation, whereas inhibition of p38 blunted TGF-β-induced apoptosis. However,
vNox4, but not TGF-β, activated Akt, and inhibition of Akt attenuated the
antiapoptotic effect of vNox4. Akt activation induced by vNox4 was accompanied by
inactivation of the protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP1B) function and enhanced
vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR)-2 phosphorylation. Moreover, 
we showed that TGF-β enhanced Notch signaling and increased expression of the
arterial marker EphrinB2 in a redox-dependent manner. In summary, our results
suggest that Nox4 and ROS have pivotal roles in mediating TGF-β-induced
endothelial apoptosis and phenotype specification. Redox mechanisms may influence
endothelial cell functions by modulating p38, PTP1B/VEGFR/Akt and Notch signaling
pathways.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2013.551 
PMCID: PMC4040700
PMID: 24457954  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2710-25. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5374.
Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Prostacyclin signaling boosts NADPH oxidase 4 in the endothelium promoting
cytoprotection and angiogenesis.

Peshavariya HM(1), Liu GS, Chang CW, Jiang F, Chan EC, Dusting GJ.

Author information: 
(1)1 Centre for Eye Research Australia, University of Melbourne , East Melbourne,
Australia .

AIMS: Prostacyclin (PGI2) that is released from the vascular endothelium plays an
important role in vasodilatation and thrombo-resistance, and it has long been
suspected to protect cell survival. How it does so has never been clear.
Recently, it has been shown that the NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) improves endothelial 
cell functions and promotes angiogenesis in vivo, but it was not known how to
boost Nox4 therapeutically to exploit its protective functions in the
vasculature. Here, we identified such a stimulus.
RESULTS: The selective and stable prostacyclin receptor (IP-R) agonist cicaprost 
increases the expression of Nox4 in human endothelial cells of several types,
including endothelial progenitor cells. The elevation of cellular cyclic-AMP
increased Nox4 expression and H2O2 production and prevented endothelial cell
apoptosis. We delineate the intracellular signaling that promotes cytoprotection:
Cicaprost acts via the IP-R/protein kinase A (PKA)/cyclic adenosine monophosphate
(cAMP) response element binding (CREB) protein pathway. Importantly, the
up-regulation of Nox4 by cicaprost also enhanced endothelial cell proliferation, 
migration, and angiogenesis, with all effects being substantially decreased by
Nox4 gene silencing. Finally, cicaprost enhanced the growth of blood vessels into
subcutaneous sponges implanted in mice, an effect that was also blocked by Nox4
gene silencing.
INNOVATION: The prostacyclin analogue cicaprost induces Nox4 via IP
receptor-cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway. The activation of this pathway protects
endothelial cells and enhances pro-angiogenic activity both in vitro and in vivo.
CONCLUSION: Prostacyclin promotes the up-regulation of Nox4 in endothelial cells,
which opens up a novel strategy that protects and enhances endothelial cell
functions in cardiovascular disease, such as repair after myocardial infarction
or other ischemic conditions.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5374 
PMID: 24450852  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2014;14(12):1009-15.

Luteolin inhibits smooth muscle cell migration and proliferation by attenuating
the production of Nox4, p-Akt and VEGF in endothelial cells.

Ding H, Li D, Zhang Y, Zhang T, Zhu H, Xu T, Luo Y, Wang C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular Research and Department of Cardiology, Affiliated 
Hospital of Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou 221002, China.
dongyeli@medmail.com.cn.

OBJECTIVE: The goals of this study were to observe how luteolin protects
endothelial cells (ECs) from injury stimulated by Angiotensin II (Ang II),
investigate the role of vascular endothelial dysfunction in vascular smooth
muscle cell proliferation and migration in vitro and investigate its primary
mechanism of action.
METHODS: A non-contact coculture system was established using a transwell system;
ECs were cultured in the lower wells, while the smooth muscle cells (SMCs) were
cultured in the upper wells. Cell proliferation was assessed by the MTT assay.
The number of SMCs that migrated through the membrane of transwell system were
observed and counted. The expression levels of various proteins (VEGF, p-Akt,
Nox4) expressed in ECs were determined by Western blotting. VEGF mRNA expression 
was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The
supernatants of ECs were measured by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to
assay VEGF concentration.
RESULTS: Ang II-stimulated ECs significantly increased the proliferation and
migration of SMCs, and these effects were inhibited by luteolin pretreatment.
Luteolin suppressed the Ang II-induced upregulation of Nox4, p-AKT and VEGF
expression in ECs.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that luteolin is capable of inhibiting
endothelial dysfunction induced by Ang II by suppressing the upregulation of
Nox4, p-Akt and VEGF, thereby restraining the proliferation and migration of SMCs
induced by injured ECs.


PMID: 24433500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Clin Cancer Res. 2014 Mar 1;20(5):1249-58. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-1453.
Epub 2014 Jan 14.

Decitabine induces delayed reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation in leukemia
cells and induces the expression of ROS generating enzymes.

Fandy TE(1), Jiemjit A, Thakar M, Rhoden P, Suarez L, Gore SD.

Author information: 
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Albany College
of Pharmacy, Colchester, Vermont; and The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer
Center, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.

PURPOSE: Azanucleoside DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) inhibitors are currently
approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treatment of
myelodysplastic syndrome. The relative contributions of DNMT inhibition and other
off-target effects to their clinical efficacy remain unclear. Data correlating
DNA methylation reversal and clinical response have been conflicting.
Consequently, it is necessary to investigate so-called off-target effects and
their impact on cell survival and differentiation.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Flow cytometry was used for cell cycle, apoptosis, and
reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation analysis. Gene expression analysis was
performed using real-time PCR. DNA methylation was detected by
methylation-specific PCR. Mitochondrial membrane potential was analyzed using
JC-1 dye staining. Western blotting was used for quantitative protein expression 
analysis.
RESULTS: 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC) induced cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis in 
leukemia cells. p53 expression was dispensable for DAC-induced apoptosis. DAC
induced delayed ROS accumulation in leukemia cells but not in solid tumor cells
and p53 expression was dispensable for ROS increase. ROS increase was
deoxycytidine kinase dependent, indicating that incorporation of DAC into nuclear
DNA is required for ROS generation. ROS accumulation by DAC was
caspase-independent and mediated the dissipation of the mitochondrial membrane
potential. Concordantly, ROS scavengers diminished DAC-induced apoptosis. DAC
induced the expression of different NADPH oxidase isoforms and upregulated Nox4
protein expression in an ATM-dependent manner, indicating the involvement of DNA 
damage signaling in Nox4 upregulation.
CONCLUSION: These data highlight the importance of mechanisms other than DNA
cytosine demethylation in modulating gene expression and suggest investigating
the relevance of ROS accumulation to the clinical activity of DAC.

©2014 AACR

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-1453 
PMCID: PMC4000016
PMID: 24423613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Am J Hypertens. 2014 Mar;27(3):460-70. doi: 10.1093/ajh/hpt268. Epub 2014 Jan 11.

L-carnitine attenuates the development of kidney fibrosis in hypertensive rats by
upregulating PPAR-γ.

Zambrano S(1), Blanca AJ, Ruiz-Armenta MV, Miguel-Carrasco JL, Arévalo M, Mate A,
Vázquez CM.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad de Sevilla,
Sevilla, Spain.

BACKGROUND: The development of renal fibrosis is a consequence of arterial
hypertension. L-carnitine plays an essential role in the β-oxidation of fatty
acids, and we have previously demonstrated hypotensive, antioxidant, and
anti-inflammatory effects of L-carnitine in arterial hypertension. This work aims
to analyze the effect of L-carnitine on renal fibrosis and to explore the
participation of peroxisome-proliferator activated receptor (PPAR)-γ in this
effect.
METHODS: Four groups or rats were used: control, treated with L-carnitine,
treated with L-NAME, and treated with L-carnitine + L-NAME. Cultured rat kidney
cells were also used to examine the role of PPAR-γ in L-carnitine effect.
RESULTS: An increase in the expression of collagen, transforming growth factor
beta 1 (TGF-β1), connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), Nox2, and Nox4 was found
in the kidney of L-NAME-treated rats. Hypertensive rats presented with an
expansion of renal fibrotic areas, which was also accompanied by overexpression
of proinflammatory cytokines, interleukin (IL)-1β, and IL-6. A reduction in the
expression of PPAR-γ and in that of anti-inflammatory IL-10 was found in the
kidney of these rats. Simultaneous treatment with L-carnitine attenuated the
renal fibrosis (which correlated with a reduction of plasma TGF-β1 levels) and
the pro-oxidative and proinflammatory status reported in L-NAME groups, with a
concomitant increase in the expression of PPAR-γ. Furthermore, the antifibrotic
effect of L-carnitine could be blocked by PPAR-γ inhibition.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms the efficacy of L-carnitine against
hypertension-associated renal fibrosis from in vivo and in vitro studies and
suggests that the L-carnitine effect occurs in a PPAR-γ-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1093/ajh/hpt268 
PMID: 24413708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 May;70:14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.12.024.
Epub 2014 Jan 8.

Proopiomelanocortin gene delivery induces apoptosis in melanoma through NADPH
oxidase 4-mediated ROS generation.

Liu GS(1), Wu JC(2), Tsai HE(3), Dusting GJ(1), Chan EC(1), Wu CS(4), Tai MH(5).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Eye Research Australia, Melbourne, VIC 3002, Australia; Department 
of Ophthalmology, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC 3002, Australia.
(2)Doctoral Degree Program in Marine Biotechnology, National Sun Yat-sen
University and Academia Sinica, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Science, and National Sun Yat-sen University,
Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital, Kaohsiung 813,
Taiwan.
(5)Doctoral Degree Program in Marine Biotechnology, National Sun Yat-sen
University and Academia Sinica, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan; Institute of Biomedical
Science, and National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan; Center for
Neuroscience, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung 804, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: minghongtai@gmail.com.

Hypoxia in the tumor microenvironment triggers differential signaling pathways
for tumor survival. In this study, we characterize the involvement of hypoxia and
reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in the antineoplastic mechanism of
proopiomelanocortin (POMC) gene delivery in a mouse B16-F10 melanoma model in
vivo and in vitro. Histological analysis revealed increased TUNEL-positive cells 
and enhanced hypoxic activities in melanoma treated with adenovirus encoding POMC
(Ad-POMC) but not control vector. Because the apoptotic cells were detected
mainly in regions distant from blood vessels, it was hypothesized that POMC
therapy might render melanoma cells vulnerable to hypoxic insult. Using a hypoxic
chamber or cobalt chloride (CoCl2), we showed that POMC gene delivery elicited
apoptosis and caspase-3 activation in cultured B16-F10 cells only under hypoxic
conditions. The apoptosis induced by POMC gene delivery was associated with
elevated ROS generation in vitro and in vivo. Blocking ROS generation using the
antioxidant N-acetyl-l-cysteine abolished the apoptosis and caspase-3 activities 
induced by POMC gene delivery and hypoxia. We further showed that POMC-derived
melanocortins, including α-MSH, β-MSH, and ACTH, but not γ-MSH, contributed to
POMC-induced apoptosis and ROS generation during hypoxia. To elucidate the source
of ROS generation, application of the NADPH oxidase inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium
attenuated α-MSH-induced apoptosis and ROS generation, implicating the
proapoptotic role of NADPH oxidase in POMC action. Of the NADPH oxidase isoforms,
only Nox4 was expressed in B16-F10 cells, and Nox4 was also elevated in
Ad-POMC-treated melanoma tissues. Silencing Nox4 gene expression with Nox4 siRNA 
suppressed the stimulatory effect of α-MSH-induced ROS generation and cell
apoptosis during hypoxia. In summary, we demonstrate that POMC gene delivery
suppressed melanoma growth by inducing apoptosis, which was at least partly
dependent on Nox4 upregulation.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.12.024 
PMID: 24412703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Life Sci. 2014 Mar 7;98(1):24-30. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.12.211. Epub 2014 Jan
8.

Hepatoprotective effects of berberine on liver fibrosis via activation of
AMP-activated protein kinase.

Li J(1), Pan Y(1), Kan M(1), Xiao X(1), Wang Y(1), Guan F(1), Zhang X(2), Chen
L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of pharmacology, Key Laboratory of Pathobiology, Ministry of
Education, Basic Medicine College, Jilin University, China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreas Surgery, China-Japan Union Hospital
of Jilin University, Jilin University, China. Electronic address:
zxw515@sohu.com.
(3)Department of pharmacology, Key Laboratory of Pathobiology, Ministry of
Education, Basic Medicine College, Jilin University, China. Electronic address:
zhouweichen@yahoo.com.

AIMS: We investigated the protective effect of berberine (BBR) on chronic liver
fibrosis in mice and the potential mechanism underlying the activation of
AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway.
MAIN METHODS: CCl4-induced chronic liver fibrosis model in mice was established
and activated rat hepatic stellate cell was treated with BBR. Cell viability was 
evaluated by SRB assay and protein expressions were detected by Western blot.
KEY FINDINGS: Our results showed that BBR ameliorated the liver fibrosis in mice 
with CCl4-induced liver injury and inhibited the proliferation of hepatic
stellate cell in dose- and time-dependent manner. BBR decreased the enzyme
release of ALT, AST, and ALP in serum, elevated SOD and reduced MDA content of
liver tissue in CCl4-induced liver fibrosis model. BBR delayed the formation of
regenerative nodules and reduced necrotic areas compared to CCl4 group. Moreover,
BBR treatment activated AMPK, decreased the protein expression of Nox4, TGF-β1
and the phosphorylated Akt. The expression of smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), the
marker of activated hepatic stellate cell, was also reduced by BBR treatment.
SIGNIFICANCE: Our studies firstly demonstrated that BBR exerted hepatoprotective 
effects possibly via activation of AMPK, blocking Nox4 and Akt expression. Our
findings may benefit the development of new strategies in the prevention of
chronic liver disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.12.211 
PMID: 24412384  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Phytomedicine. 2014 Apr 15;21(5):724-33. doi: 10.1016/j.phymed.2013.11.001. Epub 
2014 Jan 7.

The Chinese herbal formula Liuwei dihuang protects dopaminergic neurons against
Parkinson's toxin through enhancing antioxidative defense and preventing
apoptotic death.

Tseng YT(1), Chang FR(1), Lo YC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Institute of Natural Products, School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan.
(2)Graduate Institute of Natural Products, School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical 
University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan; Department of Pharmacology, School of
Medicine, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 80708, Taiwan. Electronic
address: yichlo@kmu.edu.tw.

Liuwei dihuang (LWDH), a widely used traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), has been
employed as an anti-aging prescription to improve declined function. Parkinson's 
disease (PD) is a common adult-onset neurodegenerative disorder characterized by 
the degeneration of dopaminergic nigrostriatal neurons with complex pathological 
mechanisms, including oxidative stress. Increasing evidence indicate that TCM has
the potential to be neuroprotective drugs because of their antioxidant
characteristics. The aim of this study is to investigate the mechanisms of
LWDH-mediated protection in Parkinson's toxin-induced dopaminergic
neurodegeneration by evaluating water extract of LWDH (LWDH-WE) in
1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+))-treated primary mesencephalic neurons and
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated C57BL/6 mice. In the 
present study, chemical profiling and quantitative analysis of LWDH-WE were
revealed using 3D-HPLC technique, and were confirmed by the data of three batches
of LWDH-WE. In primary mesencephalic neuronal cultures, LWDH-WE decreased
MPP(+)-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons and increase of
Annexin V-positive neurons. LWDH-WE reduced MPP(+)-induced oxidative damage via
increasing antioxidant defense (SOD, GSH), decreasing ROS production, and
down-regulating NADPH oxidases (Nox2 and Nox4). Also, LWDH-WE inhibited neuronal 
apoptosis by improving mitochondrial membrane potential, increasing antiapoptotic
protein Bcl-2 expression, and down-regulating apoptotic signaling (Bax,
cytochrome c, cleaved-caspase-3) in MPP(+)-treated neurons. In MPTP-treated
C57BL/6 mice, LWDH-WE attenuated TH-positive neuronal loss in substantia nigra
pars compacta (SNpc), and improved locomotor activity of mice. In conclusion, the
present results reveal that LWDH-WE possesses protection on dopaminergic neurons 
through enhancing antioxidant defense and decreasing apoptotic death, suggesting 
the potential benefits of LWDH-WE for PD treatment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phymed.2013.11.001 
PMID: 24411708  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Atherosclerosis. 2014 Jan;232(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.10.001.
Epub 2013 Oct 26.

LXR agonism improves TNF-α-induced endothelial dysfunction in the absence of its 
cholesterol-modulating effects.

Spillmann F(1), Van Linthout S(2), Miteva K(2), Lorenz M(3), Stangl V(3),
Schultheiss HP(1), Tschöpe C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, Charité - University Medicine Berlin,
Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany.
(2)Berlin-Brandenburg Center for Regenerative Therapies, Charité - University
Medicine Berlin, Campus Virchow, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Cardiology and Angiology, Charité - University Medicine Berlin, 
Campus Mitte, Berlin, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), 
Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Cardiology and Pneumology, Charité - University Medicine Berlin,
Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin, Germany; Berlin-Brandenburg Center for
Regenerative Therapies, Charité - University Medicine Berlin, Campus Virchow,
Berlin, Germany; DZHK (German Center for Cardiovascular Research), Berlin,
Germany. Electronic address: carsten.tschoepe@charite.de.

Stimulation of the liver X receptor (LXR) is associated with anti-inflammatory
and vascular-protective effects under hyperlipemic conditions. We examined
whether LXR stimulation influences TNF-α-induced endothelial dysfunction under
normolipemic conditions. Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation of aortic rings was
determined in an organ water bath. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC)
were exposed to TNF-α (10 ng/ml) in the presence or absence of 5 μM of the LXR
agonist T0901317 or GW3965 and changes in TNF-α-induced endothelial cell
apoptosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, and NO metabolism were analyzed.
T0901317 improved TNF-α-impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation of aortic rings
in response to acetylcholine. T0901317 decreased the TNF-α-induced apoptosis and 
inflammation as indicated by a decrease in caspase 3/7 activity, VCAM-1 mRNA
expression and subsequent mononuclear cell adhesion. Furthermore, T0901317
reduced the expression of the oxidative stress markers: AT1R, NOX4, and p22phox
and normalized the TNF-α-induced NOX activity to basal levels. In line with the
reduced AT1R expression, T0901317 impaired the Ang II responsiveness. T0901317
influenced NO metabolism as indicated by a decrease in TNF-α-upregulated arginase
activity, a reversal of TNF-α-induced downregulation of argininosuccinate
synthase mRNA expression and eNOS expression to basal levels and a raise in NO
production. Furthermore, T0901317 decreased the TNF-α-induced superoxide and
nitrotyrosine production, but did not upregulate the TNF-α-downregulated eNOS
dimer/monomer ratio. Silencing of LXRβ, but not of LXRα, abrogated the
anti-apoptotic effects of T0901317. We conclude that LXR agonism improves
TNF-α-impaired endothelial function via its anti-apoptotic, anti-inflammatory,
and anti-oxidative properties and its capacity to restore TNF-α-impaired NO
bioavailability independent of its cholesterol-modulating effects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.10.001 
PMID: 24401210  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2755-75. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5605.
Epub 2014 Feb 26.

Nox NADPH oxidases and the endoplasmic reticulum.

Laurindo FR(1), Araujo TL, Abrahão TB.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Biology Laboratory, Heart Institute (InCor), University of São Paulo 
School of Medicine , São Paulo, Brazil .

SIGNIFICANCE: Understanding isoform- and context-specific subcellular Nox reduced
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase compartmentalization 
allows relevant functional inferences. This review addresses the interplay
between Nox NADPH oxidases and the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), an increasingly
evident player in redox pathophysiology given its role in redox protein folding
and stress responses.
RECENT ADVANCES: Catalytic/regulatory transmembrane subunits are synthesized in
the ER and their processing includes folding, N-glycosylation, heme insertion,
p22phox heterodimerization, as shown for phagocyte Nox2. Dual oxidase (Duox)
maturation also involves the regulation by ER-resident Duoxa2. The ER is the
activation site for some isoforms, typically Nox4, but potentially other
isoforms. Such location influences redox/Nox-mediated calcium signaling
regulation via ER targets, such as sarcoendoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase
(SERCA). Growing evidence suggests that Noxes are integral signaling elements of 
the unfolded protein response during ER stress, with Nox4 playing a dual
prosurvival/proapoptotic role in this setting, whereas Nox2 enhances proapoptotic
signaling. ER chaperones such as protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) closely
interact with Noxes. PDI supports growth factor-dependent Nox1 activation and
mRNA expression, as well as migration in smooth muscle cells, and PDI
overexpression induces acute spontaneous Nox activation.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Mechanisms of PDI effects include possible support of complex
formation and RhoGTPase activation. In phagocytes, PDI supports phagocytosis, Nox
activation, and redox-dependent interactions with p47phox. Together, the results 
implicate PDI as possible Nox organizer.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: We propose that convergence between Noxes and ER may have
evolutive roots given ER-related functional contexts, which paved Nox evolution, 
namely calcium signaling and pathogen killing. Overall, the interplay between
Noxes and the ER may provide relevant insights in Nox-related (patho)physiology.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5605 
PMCID: PMC4026305
PMID: 24386930  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Biol Chem. 2014 Feb 21;289(8):4896-905. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.514869. Epub 2013
Dec 26.

Calcineurin Aβ regulates NADPH oxidase (Nox) expression and activity via nuclear 
factor of activated T cells (NFAT) in response to high glucose.

Williams CR(1), Gooch JL.

Author information: 
(1)From the Atlanta Veterans Administration Medical Center, Atlanta, Georgia
30033 and.

Hypertrophy is an adaptive response that enables organs to appropriately meet
increased functional demands. Previously, we reported that calcineurin (Cn) is
required for glomerular and whole kidney hypertrophy in diabetic rodents (Gooch, 
J. L., Barnes, J. L., Garcia, S., and Abboud, H. E. (2003). Calcineurin is
activated in diabetes and is required for glomerular hypertrophy and ECM
accumulation. Am. J. Physiol. Renal Physiol. 284, F144-F154; Reddy, R. N.,
Knotts, T. L., Roberts, B. R., Molkentin, J. D., Price, S. R., and Gooch, J. L.
(2011). Calcineurin Aβ is required for hypertrophy but not matrix expansion in
the diabetic kidney. J. Cell Mol. Med. 15, 414-422). Because studies have also
implicated the reactive oxygen species-generating enzymes NADPH oxidases (Nox) in
diabetic kidney responses, we tested the hypothesis that Nox and Cn cooperate in 
a common signaling pathway. First, we examined the role of the two main isoforms 
of Cn in hypertrophic signaling. Using primary kidney cells lacking a catalytic
subunit of Cn (CnAα(-/-) or CnAβ(-/-)), we found that high glucose selectively
activates CnAβ, whereas CnAα is constitutively active. Furthermore, CnAβ but not 
CnAα mediates hypertrophy. Next, we found that chronic reactive oxygen species
generation in response to high glucose is attenuated in CnAβ(-/-) cells,
suggesting that Cn is upstream of Nox. Consistent with this, loss of CnAβ reduces
basal expression and blocks high glucose induction of Nox2 and Nox4. Inhibition
of nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT), a CnAβ-regulated transcription
factor, decreases Nox2 and Nox4 expression, whereas NFAT overexpression increases
Nox2 and Nox4, indicating that the CnAβ/NFAT pathway modulates Nox. These data
reveal that the CnAβ/NFAT pathway regulates Nox and plays an important role in
high glucose-mediated hypertrophic responses in the kidney.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.514869 
PMCID: PMC3931051
PMID: 24371139  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Urology. 2014 Feb;83(2):510.e1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2013.10.038. Epub 2013
Dec 19.

Exposure of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells to oxalate and calcium oxalate
crystals activates nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-oxidase.

Khan A(1), Byer K(2), Khan SR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Shaheed Benazir Bhutto University, Sheringal, Dir
Upper, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Immunology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL.
(3)Department of Pathology, Immunology and Laboratory Medicine, University of
Florida College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL. Electronic address:
Khan@pathology.ufl.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate
(NADPH)-oxidase activity in Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells and the
production of reactive oxygen species on exposure to oxalate (Ox) or calcium
oxalate (CaOx) crystals.
METHODS: Monolayers of confluent Madin-Darby canine kidney cells were exposed to 
100, 300, 500 μmol, 1 mmol Ox or 33, 66, 132 μg/cm(2) CaOx crystals for 15
minutes, 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hours, or 3 hours. After specified periods of
exposure to Ox and CaOx crystals, lactate dehydrogenase release, trypan blue
exclusion, activation of NADPH oxidase, and superoxide production were determined
using standard procedures. The production of Nox4, a membrane associated subunit 
of the NADPH oxidase enzyme, was determined by western blot analysis.
RESULTS: Exposure to Ox and CaOx crystals leads to time- and
concentration-dependent activation of NADPH oxidase. Western blot analysis showed
an increase in the production of Nox4. The production of superoxide also changed 
in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, with maximum increases after
30-minute exposure to the highest concentrations of Ox and CaOx crystals. Longer 
exposures did not change the results or resulted in decreased activities.
Exposure to higher concentrations also caused increased lactate dehydrogenase
release and trypan blue exclusion indicating cell damage.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that cells of the distal tubular origin are equipped
with NADPH oxidase that is activated by exposures to Ox and CaOx crystals. Higher
concentrations of both lead to cell injury, most probably through the increased
reactive oxygen species production by the exposed cells.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2013.10.038 
PMCID: PMC3906681
PMID: 24360063  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Mar;68:247-57. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.12.010. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Signaling steps in the induction of genomic damage by insulin in colon and kidney
cells.

Othman EM(1), Hintzsche H(2), Stopper H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Wuerzburg, D-97078
Wuerzburg, Germany; Department of Analytical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy,
University of El-Minia, 61519 El-Minia, Egypt.
(2)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Wuerzburg, D-97078
Wuerzburg, Germany.
(3)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Wuerzburg, D-97078
Wuerzburg, Germany. Electronic address: stopper@toxi.uni-wuerzburg.de.

Diabetes mellitus (DM), a disease with almost 350 million people affected
worldwide, will be the seventh leading cause of death by 2030. Diabetic patients 
develop various types of complications, among them an increased rate of
malignancies. Studies reported the strong correlation between DM and several
cancer types, of which colon and kidney cancers are the most common.
Hyperinsulinemia, the high insulin blood level characteristic of early diabetes
type 2, was identified as a risk factor for cancer development. In previous
studies, we showed that an elevated insulin level can induce oxidative stress,
resulting in DNA damage in colon cells in vitro and in kidney cells in vitro and 
in vivo. In the present study, we elucidate the signaling pathway of
insulin-mediated genotoxicity, which is effective through oxidative stress
induction in colon and kidney. The signaling mechanism is starting by
phosphorylation of the insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 receptors,
followed by activation of phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), which in turn
activates AKT. Subsequently, mitochondria and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
phosphate oxidase (NADPH) isoforms (Nox1 and Nox4 in colon and kidney,
respectively) are activated for reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and the
resulting excess ROS can attack the DNA, causing DNA oxidation. We conclude that 
hyperinsulinemia represents an important risk factor for cancer initiation or
progression as well as a target for cancer prevention in diabetic patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.12.010 
PMID: 24355212  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Exp Ther Med. 2014 Jan;7(1):260-266. Epub 2013 Nov 5.

Grape seed extract attenuates arsenic-induced nephrotoxicity in rats.

Zhang J(1), Pan X(2), Li N(3), Li X(2), Wang Y(2), Liu X(2), Yin X(2), Yu Z(2).

Author information: 
(1)Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450008,
P.R. China ; Henan Cancer Hospital, Zhengzhou, Henan 450008, P.R. China.
(2)School of Public Health, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450001, P.R.
China.
(3)School of Public Health, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450001, P.R.
China ; College of Food Science and Technology, Henan Agriculture University,
Zhengzhou, Henan 450002, P.R. China.

Oxidative stress is a recognized factor in nephrotoxicity induced by chronic
exposure to inorganic arsenic (As). Grape seed extract (GSE) possesses
antioxidant properties. The present study was designed to evaluate the beneficial
effects of GSE against arsenic-induced renal injury. Healthy, male Sprague-Dawley
rats were exposed to As in drinking water (30 ppm) with or without GSE (100
mg/kg) for 12 months. The serum proinflammatory cytokine levels and mRNA
expression levels of fibrogenic markers in the renal tissues were evaluated using
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and quantitative polymerase chain reaction,
respectively. The protein expression levels of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide 
phosphate (NADPH) subunits, transforming growth factor-β1 (TGF-β1) and
phosphorylated Smad2/3 (pSmad2/3) were assessed using western blot analysis. The 
results demonstrated that cotreatment with GSE significantly improved renal
function, as demonstrated by the reductions in relative kidney weight (% of body 
weight) and blood urea nitrogen, and the increase in the creatinine clearance
capacity. GSE attenuated the As-induced changes in the serum levels of tumor
necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-1β and the mRNA levels of 
TGF-β1, α-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and
fibronectin (FN) in renal tissue. Furthermore, administration of GSE markedly
reduced As-stimulated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and Nox activity, 
as well as the protein expression levels of the NADPH subunits (Nox2, p47phox and
Nox4). In addition, GSE cotreatment was correlated with a significant reduction
in TGF-β/Smad signaling, as demonstrated by the decreased protein levels of
TGF-β1 and pSmad2/3 in renal tissue. This study indicated that GSE may be a
useful agent for the prevention of nephrotoxicity induced by chronic exposure to 
As. GSE may exert its effects through the suppression of Nox and inhibition of
TGF-β/Smad signaling activation.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2013.1381 
PMCID: PMC3861237
PMID: 24348802 


128. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2014 May;210(5):466.e1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.12.019.
Epub 2013 Dec 13.

The role of NADPH oxidase in a mouse model of fetal alcohol syndrome.

Hill AJ(1), Drever N(1), Yin H(1), Tamayo E(1), Saade G(1), Bytautiene E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The University of Texas Medical
Branch, Galveston, TX.

OBJECTIVE: Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the most common cause of nongenetic
mental retardation. Oxidative stress is one of the purported mechanisms.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase (NOX) is an enzyme involved
in the production of reactive oxygen species. Our objective was to evaluate NOX
in the fetal brain of a well-validated mouse model of FAS.
STUDY DESIGN: Timed, pregnant C57BL/6J mice were injected intraperitoneally with 
0.03 mL/g of either 25% ethyl alcohol or saline. Fetal brain, liver, and placenta
were harvested on gestational day 18. The unit of analysis was the litter; tissue
from 6-8 litters in the alcohol and control group was isolated. Evaluation of
messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression of NOX subunits (DUOX1, DUOX2, NOX1,
NOX2, NOX3, NOX4, NOXA1, NOXO1, RAC1, p22phox, and p67phox) was performed using
quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction; alcohol vs placebo groups were 
compared using a Student t test or a Mann-Whitney test (P < .05).
RESULTS: Alcohol exposed fetal brains showed significant up-regulation in
subunits DUOX2 (1.61 ± 0.28 vs 0.84 ± 0.09; P = .03), NOXA1 (1.75 ± 0.27 vs 1.09 
± 0.06; P = .04), and NOXO1 (1.59 ± 0.10 vs 1.28 ± 0.05; P = .02). Differences in
mRNA expression in the placenta were not significant; p67phox was significantly
up-regulated in alcohol-exposed livers.
CONCLUSION: Various NOX subunits are up-regulated in fetal brains exposed to
alcohol. This effect was not observed in the fetal liver or placenta. Given the
available evidence, the NOX system may be involved in the causation of FAS
through the generation of reactive oxygen species and may be a potential target
for preventative treatment in FAS.

Copyright © 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.12.019 
PMCID: PMC4011987
PMID: 24334207  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):E374-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1306798111. Epub 2013 Dec 9.

TGF-β directs trafficking of the epithelial sodium channel ENaC which has
implications for ion and fluid transport in acute lung injury.

Peters DM(1), Vadász I, Wujak L, Wygrecka M, Olschewski A, Becker C, Herold S,
Papp R, Mayer K, Rummel S, Brandes RP, Günther A, Waldegger S, Eickelberg O,
Seeger W, Morty RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Department of Biochemistry, Justus Liebig
University, Universities of Giessen and Marburg Lung Center, German Center for
Lung Research, 35392 Giessen, Germany.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):885-6.

TGF-β is a pathogenic factor in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome
(ARDS), a condition characterized by alveolar edema. A unique TGF-β pathway is
described, which rapidly promoted internalization of the αβγ epithelial sodium
channel (ENaC) complex from the alveolar epithelial cell surface, leading to
persistence of pulmonary edema. TGF-β applied to the alveolar airspaces of live
rabbits or isolated rabbit lungs blocked sodium transport and caused fluid
retention, which--together with patch-clamp and flow cytometry
studies--identified ENaC as the target of TGF-β. TGF-β rapidly and sequentially
activated phospholipase D1, phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase 1α, and
NADPH oxidase 4 (NOX4) to produce reactive oxygen species, driving
internalization of βENaC, the subunit responsible for cell-surface stability of
the αβγENaC complex. ENaC internalization was dependent on oxidation of βENaC
Cys(43). Treatment of alveolar epithelial cells with bronchoalveolar lavage
fluids from ARDS patients drove βENaC internalization, which was inhibited by a
TGF-β neutralizing antibody and a Tgfbr1 inhibitor. Pharmacological inhibition of
TGF-β signaling in vivo in mice, and genetic ablation of the nox4 gene in mice,
protected against perturbed lung fluid balance in a bleomycin model of lung
injury, highlighting a role for both proximal and distal components of this
unique ENaC regulatory pathway in lung fluid balance. These data describe a
unique TGF-β-dependent mechanism that regulates ion and fluid transport in the
lung, which is not only relevant to the pathological mechanisms of ARDS, but
might also represent a physiological means of acutely regulating ENaC activity in
the lung and other organs.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1306798111 
PMCID: PMC3903252
PMID: 24324142  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Int J Mol Med. 2014 Feb;33(2):254-62. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2013.1573. Epub 2013 Dec 
3.

Intrahepatic microcirculatory disorder, parenchymal hypoxia and NOX4 upregulation
result in zonal differences in hepatocyte apoptosis following lipopolysaccharide-
and D-galactosamine-induced acute liver failure in rats.

Tanaka M(1), Tanaka K(1), Masaki Y(1), Miyazaki M(1), Kato M(1), Kotoh K(1),
Enjoji M(2), Nakamuta M(3), Takayanagi R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Bioregulatory Science, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812‑8582, Japan.
(2)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Fukuoka University, Fukuoka 814-0180,
Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Kyushu Medical Center, National Hospital
Organization, Fukuoka 810-8563, Japan.

Although the mechanisms responsible for acute liver failure (ALF) have not yet
been fully elucidated, studies have indicated that intrahepatic macrophage
activation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of ALF through
intrahepatic microcirculatory disorder and consequent parenchymal cell death.
Intrahepatic microcirculatory disorder has been demonstrated in animal models
using intravital microscopy; however, the limitations of this method include
simultaneously evaluating blood flow and the surrounding pathological changes.
Therefore, in this study, we devised a novel method involving
tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate (TRITC)-dextran administration for the
pathological assessment of hepatic microcirculation. In addition, we aimed to
elucidate the mechanisms through which intrahepatic microcirculatory disorder
progresses with relation to activated macrophages. ALF was induced in Wistar rats
by exposure to lipopolysaccharide and D-galactosamine. Intrahepatic
microcirculation and microcirculatory disorder in zone 3 (pericentral zone) of
the livers of rats with ALF was observed. Immunohistochemical examinations in
conjunction with TRITC-dextran images revealed that the macrophages were mainly
distributed in zone 2 (intermediate zone), while cleaved caspase-3-positive
hepatocytes, pimonidazole and hypoxia-inducible factor 1-α were abundant in zone 
3. We also found that 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide
phosphate oxidase (NOX)4-positive cells were predominantly located in the zone 3 
parenchyma. The majority of apoptotic hepatocytes in zone 3 were co-localized
with NOX4. Our results revealed that the apoptotic cells in zone 3 were a result 
of hypoxic conditions induced by intrahepatic microcirculatory disorder, and were
not induced by activated macrophages. The increased levels of oxidative stress in
zone 3 may contribute to the progression of hepatocyte apoptosis.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2013.1573 
PMCID: PMC3896462
PMID: 24317376  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Mar;68:35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.11.016.
Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Exposure to low- vs iso-osmolar contrast agents reduces NADPH-dependent reactive 
oxygen species generation in a cellular model of renal injury.

Netti GS(1), Prattichizzo C(1), Montemurno E(2), Simone S(3), Cafiero C(3),
Rascio F(2), Stallone G(2), Ranieri E(1), Grandaliano G(2), Gesualdo L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Section of Clinical Pathology,
University of Foggia, Foggia 71122, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Section of Nephrology, University
of Foggia, Foggia 71122, Italy.
(3)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation, Section of Nephrology,
University of Bari "Aldo Moro," Bari 70124, Italy.
(4)Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation, Section of Nephrology,
University of Bari "Aldo Moro," Bari 70124, Italy. Electronic address:
loreto.gesualdo@uniba.it.

Contrast-induced nephropathy represents the third cause of hospital-acquired
acute renal failure. This study investigated the effects of low- vs iso-osmolar
contrast medium (CM) exposure on NADPH-dependent reactive oxygen species (ROS)
generation by tubular cells. X-ray attenuation of iohexol, iopamidol, and
iodixanol was assessed at equimolar iodine concentrations and their effects on
human renal proximal tubular cells (PTCs) were evaluated with equally attenuating
solutions of each CM. Cytotoxicity, apoptosis, and necrosis were investigated by 
trypan blue exclusion, MTT assay, and annexin V/propidium iodide assay,
respectively. ROS production was assessed by DCF assay, NADPH oxidase activity by
the lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence method, and Nox4 expression by
immunoblot. Yielding the same X-ray attenuation, CM cytotoxicity was assessed in 
PTCs at equimolar iodine concentrations. More necrosis was present after
incubation with iohexol and iopamidol than after incubation with equal
concentrations of iodixanol. Iohexol and iodixanol at low iodine concentrations
induced less cytotoxicity than iopamidol. Moreover, both iohexol and iopamidol
induced more apoptosis than iodixanol, with a dose-dependent effect. ROS
generation was significantly higher with iopamidol and iohexol compared to
iodixanol. NADPH oxidase activity and Nox4 protein expression significantly
increased after exposure to iopamidol and iohexol, with a dose-dependent effect, 
compared with iodixanol. CM-induced Nox4 expression and activity depended upon
Src activation. In conclusion, at angiographic concentrations, iodixanol induces 
fewer cytotoxic effects on cultured tubular cells than iohexol and iopamidol
along with a lower induction of Nox4-dependent ROS generation. This enzyme may,
thus, represent a potential therapeutic target to prevent iodinated CM-related
oxidative stress.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.11.016 
PMID: 24300339  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2014 Feb 1;306(3):F344-50. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00515.2013. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Enhanced expression and activity of Nox2 and Nox4 in the macula densa in ANG
II-induced hypertensive mice.

Zhang J(1), Chandrashekar K, Lu Y, Duan Y, Qu P, Wei J, Juncos LA, Liu R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Physiology and Biophysics, Univ. of Mississippi Medical Center, 2500 
N. State St., Jackson, MS 39216. rliu@umc.edu.

NAD(P)H oxidase (Nox)2 and Nox4 are the isoforms of Nox expressed in the macula
densa (MD). MD-derived superoxide (O₂⁻), primarily generated by Nox2, is enhanced
by acute ANG II stimulation. However, the effects of chronic elevations in ANG II
during ANG II-induced hypertension on MD-derived O₂⁻ are unknown. We infused a
slow pressor dose of ANG II (600 ng·min⁻¹·kg⁻¹) for 2 wk in C57BL/6 mice and
found that mean arterial pressure was elevated by 22.3 ± 3.4 mmHg (P < 0.01). We 
measured O₂⁻ generation in isolated and perfused MDs and found that O₂⁻
generation by the MD was increased from 9.4 ± 0.9 U/min in control mice to 34.7 ±
1.8 U/min in ANG II-induced hypertensive mice (P < 0.01). We stimulated MMDD1
cells, a MD-like cell line, with ANG II and found that O₂⁻ generation increased
from 921 ± 91 to 3,687 ± 183 U·min⁻¹·10⁵ cells⁻¹, which was inhibited with
apocynin, oxypurinol, or NS-398 by 46%, 14%, and 12%, respectively. We isolated
MD cells using laser capture microdissection and measured mRNA levels of Nox.
Nox2 and Nox4 levels increased by 3.7 ± 0.17- and 2.6 ± 0.15-fold in ANG
II-infused mice compared with control mice. In MMDD1 cells treated with Nox2 or
Nox4 small interfering (si)RNAs, ANG II-stimulated O₂⁻ generation was blunted by 
50% and 41%, respectively. In cells treated with p22(phox) siRNA, ANG
II-stimulated O₂⁻ generation was completely blocked. In conclusion, we found that
a subpressor dose of ANG II enhances O₂⁻ generation in the MD and that the
sources of this O₂⁻ are primarily Nox2 and Nox4.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00515.2013 
PMCID: PMC3920051
PMID: 24285500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Circulation. 2014 Feb 25;129(8):864-74. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.004581.
Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2 (mTORC2) coordinates pulmonary artery
smooth muscle cell metabolism, proliferation, and survival in pulmonary arterial 
hypertension.

Goncharov DA(1), Kudryashova TV, Ziai H, Ihida-Stansbury K, DeLisser H, Krymskaya
VP, Tuder RM, Kawut SM, Goncharova EA.

Author information: 
(1)Pulmonary, Allergy & Critical Care Division (D.A.G., T.V.K., H.Z., H.D.,
V.P.K., S.M.K., E.A.G.), Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine
(K.I.-S.), Pulmonary Vascular Disease Program (K.I.-S., H.D., V.P.K., S.M.K.,
E.A.G.), Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics (S.M.K.), and
Abramson Cancer Center (V.P.K.), Perelman School of Medicine at the University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA; Division of Pulmonary Sciences and Critical Care 
Medicine, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO (R.M.T.); and Division of
Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Vascular Medicine Institute,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA (D.A.G., T.V.K.). Dr 
Goncharova's current affiliation is the Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and
Critical Care Medicine, Vascular Medicine Institute, University of Pittsburgh
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA.

BACKGROUND: Enhanced proliferation, resistance to apoptosis, and metabolic shift 
to glycolysis of pulmonary arterial vascular smooth muscle cells (PAVSMCs) are
key pathophysiological components of pulmonary vascular remodeling in idiopathic 
pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). The role of the distinct mammalian target 
of rapamycin (mTOR) complexes mTORC1 (mTOR-Raptor) and mTORC2 (mTOR-Rictor) in
PAVSMC proliferation and survival in PAH and their therapeutic relevance are
unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Immunohistochemical and immunoblot analyses revealed that
mTORC1 and mTORC2 pathways are markedly upregulated in small remodeled pulmonary 
arteries and isolated distal PAVSMCs from subjects with idiopathic PAH that have 
increased ATP levels, proliferation, and survival that depend on glycolytic
metabolism. Small interfering RNA- and pharmacology-based analysis showed that
although both mTORC1 and mTORC2 contribute to proliferation, only mTORC2 is
required for ATP generation and survival of idiopathic PAH PAVSMCs. mTORC2
downregulated the energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase, which led to
activation of mTORC1-S6 and increased proliferation, as well as a deficiency of
the proapoptotic protein Bim and idiopathic PAH PAVSMC survival. NADPH oxidase 4 
(Nox4) protein levels were increased in idiopathic PAH PAVSMCs, which was
necessary for mTORC2 activation, proliferation, and survival. Nox4 levels and
mTORC2 signaling were significantly upregulated in small pulmonary arteries from 
hypoxia-exposed rats at days 2 to 28 of hypoxia. Treatment with the mTOR kinase
inhibitor PP242 at days 15 to 28 suppressed mTORC2 but not Nox4, induced smooth
muscle-specific apoptosis in small pulmonary arteries, and reversed
hypoxia-induced pulmonary vascular remodeling in rats.
CONCLUSIONS: These data provide a novel mechanistic link of Nox4-dependent
activation of mTORC2 via the energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase to
increased proliferation and survival of PAVSMCs in PAH, which suggests a new
potential pathway for therapeutic interventions.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.004581 
PMCID: PMC3968690
PMID: 24270265  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Cell Physiol. 2014 Jul;229(7):845-55. doi: 10.1002/jcp.24511.

Acetylsalicylic acid inhibits IL-18-induced cardiac fibroblast migration through 
the induction of RECK.

Siddesha JM(1), Valente AJ, Sakamuri SS, Gardner JD, Delafontaine P, Noda M,
Chandrasekar B.

Author information: 
(1)Research Service, Southeast Louisiana Veterans Health Care System, New
Orleans, Louisiana; Heart and Vascular Institute, Tulane University School of
Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana.

The pathogenesis of cardiac fibrosis and adverse remodeling is thought to involve
the ROS-dependent induction of inflammatory cytokines and matrix
metalloproteinases (MMPs), and the activation and migration of cardiac
fibroblasts (CF). Here we investigated the role of RECK
(reversion-inducing-cysteine-rich protein with Kazal motifs), a unique
membrane-anchored MMP regulator, on IL-18-induced CF migration, and the effect of
acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on this response. In a Matrigel invasion assay,
IL-18-induced migration of primary mouse CF was dependent on both IKK/NF-κB- and 
JNK/AP-1-mediated MMP9 induction and Sp1-mediated RECK suppression, mechanisms
that required Nox4-dependent H(2)O(2) generation. Notably, forced expression of
RECK attenuated IL-18-induced MMP9 activation and CF migration. Further,
therapeutic concentrations of ASA inhibited IL-18-induced H(2)O(2) generation,
MMP9 activation, RECK suppression, and CF migration. The salicylic acid moiety of
ASA similarly attenuated IL-18-induced CF migration. Thus, ASA may exert
potential beneficial effect in cardiac fibrosis through multiple protective
mechanisms.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.24511 
PMCID: PMC4408083
PMID: 24265116  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2014 Jan;306(2):F155-67. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00438.2013. Epub 2013 Nov 20.

Upregulation of mitochondrial Nox4 mediates TGF-β-induced apoptosis in cultured
mouse podocytes.

Das R(1), Xu S, Quan X, Nguyen TT, Kong ID, Chung CH, Lee EY, Cha SK, Park KS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Physiology and Institute of Lifestyle Medicine, Yonsei Univ. Wonju
College of Medicine, Ilsan-dong, Wonju, Gangwon-Do 220-701, Republic of Korea.
qsang@yonsei.ac.kr.

Injury to podocytes leads to the onset of chronic renal diseases characterized by
proteinuria. Elevated transforming growth factor (TGF)-β in kidney tissue is
associated with podocyte damage that ultimately results in apoptosis and
detachment. We investigated the proapoptotic mechanism of TGF-β in immortalized
mouse podocytes. Exogenous TGF-β1-induced podocyte apoptosis through caspase-3
activation, which was related to elevated ROS levels generated by selective
upregulation of NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4). In mouse podocytes, Nox4 was
predominantly localized to mitochondria, and Nox4 upregulation by TGF-β1 markedly
depolarized mitochondrial membrane potential. TGF-β1-induced ROS production and
caspase activation were mitigated by an antioxidant, the Nox inhibitor
diphenyleneiodonium, or small interfering RNA for Nox4. A TGF-β receptor I
blocker, SB-431542, completely reversed the changes triggered by TGF-β1.
Knockdown of either Smad2 or Smad3 prevented the increase of Nox4 expression, ROS
generation, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and caspase-3 activation by
TGF-β1. These results suggest that TGF-β1-induced mitochondrial Nox4 upregulation
via the TGF-β receptor-Smad2/3 pathway is responsible for ROS production,
mitochondrial dysfunction, and apoptosis, which may at least in part contribute
to the development and progression of proteinuric glomerular diseases such as
diabetic nephropathy.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00438.2013 
PMID: 24259511  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2014 Mar;38(3):672-82. doi: 10.1111/acer.12305. Epub 2013
Nov 20.

Loss of functional NADPH oxidase 2 protects against alcohol-induced bone
resorption in female p47phox-/- mice.

Mercer KE(1), Sims CR, Yang CS, Wynne RA, Moutos C, Hogue WR, Lumpkin CK, Suva
LJ, Chen JR, Badger TM, Ronis MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Center for Orthopaedic Research at the University of
Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's Nutrition Center, Little
Rock, Arkansas.

BACKGROUND: In bone, NADPH oxidase (NOX)-derived reactive oxygen species (ROS)
superoxide and/or hydrogen peroxide are an important stimulus for osteoclast
differentiation and activity. Previously, we have demonstrated that chronic
ethanol (EtOH) consumption generates excess NOX-dependent ROS in osteoblasts,
which functions to stimulate nuclear factor kappa-β receptor ligand (RANKL)-RANK 
signaling, thus increasing osteoclastogenesis and activity. This activity can be 
blocked by co-administration of EtOH with the pan-NOX inhibitor diphenylene
idonium (DPI).
METHODS: To test whether EtOH-induced bone loss is dependent on a functional NOX2
enzyme, 6-week-old female C57BL/6J-Ncf1/p47phox(-/-) (p47phox KO) and wild-type
(WT) mice were pair-fed EtOH diets for 40 days. Bone loss was assessed by 3-point
bending, micro-computed tomography and static histomorphometric analysis.
Additionally, ST2 cultured cells were co-treated with EtOH and NOX inhibitors,
DPI, gliotoxin, and plumbagin, after which changes in ROS production, and in
RANKL and NOX mRNA expression were analyzed.
RESULTS: In WT mice, EtOH treatment significantly reduced bone density and
mechanical strength, and increased total osteoclast number and activity. In
EtOH-treated p47phox KO mice, bone density and mechanical strength were
completely preserved. EtOH p47phox KO mice had no changes in osteoclast numbers
or activity, and no elevations in serum CTX or RANKL gene expression (p < 0.05). 
In both WT and p47phox KO mice, EtOH feeding reduced biochemical markers of bone 
formation (p < 0.05). In vitro EtOH exposure of ST2 cells increased ROS, which
was blocked by pretreating with DPI or the NOX2 inhibitor gliotoxin. EtOH-induced
RANKL and NOX2 gene expression were inhibited by the NOX4-specific inhibitor
plumbagin.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that NOX2-derived ROS is necessary for
EtOH-induced bone resorption. In osteoblasts, NOX2 and NOX4 appear to work in
tandem to increase RANKL expression, whereas EtOH-mediated inhibition of bone
formation occurs via a NOX2-independent mechanism.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12305 
PMCID: PMC4068959
PMID: 24256560  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Feb;67:285-91. doi:
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.11.005. Epub 2013 Nov 13.

Nox4 redox regulation of PTP1B contributes to the proliferation and migration of 
glioblastoma cells by modulating tyrosine phosphorylation of coronin-1C.

Mondol AS(1), Tonks NK(2), Kamata T(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Shinshu University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 3-1-1 Asahi, Matsumoto, Nagano, Japan 390-8621.
(2)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Shinshu University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 3-1-1 Asahi, Matsumoto, Nagano, Japan 390-8621. Electronic
address: kamatat@shinshu-u.ac.jp.

Glioblastoma multiforme is a common primary brain tumor in adults and one of the 
most devastating human cancers. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated by NADPH 
oxidase (Nox) 4 have recently been a focus of attention in the study of
glioblastomas, but the molecular mechanisms underlying the actions of Nox4 remain
elusive. In this study, we demonstrated that silencing of Nox4 expression by
Nox4-targeted siRNA suppressed cell growth and motility of glioblastoma U87
cells, indicating the involvement of Nox4. Furthermore, Nox4-derived ROS oxidized
and inactivated protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP):1B: PTP1B in its active form
downregulates cell proliferation and migration. By affinity purification with the
substrate-trapping mutant of PTP1B, tyrosine-phosphorylated coronin-1C was
identified as a substrate of PTP1B. Its tyrosine phosphorylation level was
suppressed by Nox4 inhibition, suggesting that tyrosine phosphorylation of
coronin-1C is regulated by the Nox4-PTP1B pathway. Finally, ablation of
coronin-1C attenuated the proliferative and migratory activity of the cells.
Collectively, these findings reveal that Nox4-mediated redox regulation of PTP1B 
serves as a modulator, in part through coronin-1C, of the growth and migration of
glioblastoma cells, and provide new insight into the mechanistic aspect of
glioblastoma malignancy.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2013.11.005 
PMID: 24239742  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol. 2014 Jan 15;306(2):H197-205. doi:
10.1152/ajpheart.00977.2012. Epub 2013 Nov 8.

Nox-derived ROS are acutely activated in pressure overload pulmonary
hypertension: indications for a seminal role for mitochondrial Nox4.

Frazziano G(1), Al Ghouleh I, Baust J, Shiva S, Champion HC, Pagano PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Vascular Medicine Institute, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania;

Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a severe progressive disease with marked
morbidity and high mortality in which right ventricular (RV) failure is the major
cause of death. Thus knowledge of the mechanisms underlying RV failure is an area
of active interest. Previous studies suggest a role of NADPH oxidase in
cardiomyocyte dysfunction in the left heart. Here we postulate that acute
pressure overload induced by pulmonary artery banding (PAB) leads to a
Nox4-initiated increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS) in mouse RV that may
lead to feed-forward induction of Nox2. To test our hypothesis, ROS production
was measured in RV and left ventricle homogenates. The data show that hydrogen
peroxide (H2O2), but not superoxide anion (O2(·-)), was increased in the early
phases (within 6 h) of PAB in RV and that this increase was diminished by
catalase and diphenyleneiodonium chloride but not by SOD, N(ω)-nitro-l-arginin
methyl ester, febuxostat, or indomethacin. H2O2 production in RV was not
attenuated in Nox2 null mice subjected to 6 h PAB. Moreover, we observed an
upregulation of Nox4 mRNA after 1 h of PAB and an increase in mitochondrial Nox4 
protein 6 h post-PAB. In contrast, we observed an increase in Nox2 mRNA 1 day
post-PAB. Expression of antioxidant enzymes SOD, catalase, and glutathione
peroxidase did not change, but catalase activity increased 6 h post-PAB. Taken
together, these findings show a role of mitochondria-localized Nox4 in the early 
phase of PAB and suggest an involvement of this isozyme in early ROS generation
possibly contributing to progression of RV dysfunction and failure.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpheart.00977.2012 
PMCID: PMC3920131
PMID: 24213612  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Food Chem Toxicol. 2014 Jan;63:128-35. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2013.10.049. Epub 2013 
Nov 8.

Role of NADPH oxidase-4 in saturated fatty acid-induced insulin resistance in
SK-Hep-1 cells.

Oh JM(1), Choi JM(1), Lee JY(1), Oh SJ(2), Kim BH(1), Kim SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Pharmacy, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, Republic
of Korea.
(2)Bio-Evaluation Center, KRIBB, Ochang, Chungbuk, Republic of Korea.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, Republic
of Korea. Electronic address: sangkim@cnu.ac.kr.

We aimed to develop a cell culture model of type 2 diabetes by treating SK-Hep-1 
cells with four free fatty acids [i.e., palmitic acid, stearic acid (SA),
linoleic acid and oleic acid]. The results showed that Akt phosphorylation was
increased in SK-Hep-1 cells treated with insulin in a time- and
concentration-dependent manner, which was inhibited by saturated fatty acids, but
not by unsaturated fatty acids. Moreover, protein levels of NADPH oxidase (NOX) 4
but not NOX2 were increased following SA treatment and, consequently, increased
reactive oxygen species production and decreased cellular glutathione were
observed. Apocynin, a NOX4 inhibitor, restored the SA-induced inhibition of Akt
phosphorylation, suggesting the role of NOX4 in insulin resistance induced by SA.
Neither phosphorylation level nor protein level of the stress signaling kinases, 
such as c-Jun N-terminal kinase or p38 mitogen activated protein kinase, was
changed by SA treatment. Although binding immunoglobulin protein, a marker of
endoplasmic reticulum stress, was transiently increased in SKHep-1 cells treated 
with SA, 4-phenyl butyric acid, a chemical chaperone, had no effect on the
insulin-mediated Akt phosphorylation inhibited by SA. The present study provides 
a useful model for screening anti-insulin resistance drugs and finding new drug
targets for treatment of diabetes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2013.10.049 
PMID: 24211519  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Eur J Pharmacol. 2014 Jan 15;723:442-50. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2013.10.052. Epub 
2013 Nov 6.

Sexual dimorphism in rat aortic endothelial function of streptozotocin-induced
diabetes: possible involvement of superoxide and nitric oxide production.

Han X(1), Zhang R(1), Anderson L(2), Rahimian R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Pharmacology, Thomas J. Long School of Pharmacy &
Health Sciences, University of the Pacific, 3601 Pacific Avenue, Stockton, CA
95211, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Arthur A. Dugoni School of Dentistry,
University of the Pacific, San Francisco, CA 94115, USA.
(3)Department of Physiology & Pharmacology, Thomas J. Long School of Pharmacy &
Health Sciences, University of the Pacific, 3601 Pacific Avenue, Stockton, CA
95211, USA. Electronic address: rrahimian@pacific.edu.

Little is known of the interactions between diabetes and sex hormones on vascular
function. The objectives of this study were to investigate whether there were sex
differences in rat aortic endothelial function one week after the induction of
streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetes, and to examine the potential roles of superoxide
and nitric oxide (NO) in this sex-specific effect. Endothelium-dependent
vasodilatation to acetylcholine (ACh) was measured in rat aortic rings before and
after treatment with MnTMPyP (25µM), a superoxide dismutase. Contractile
responses to phenylephrine (PE) were generated before and after treatment with
l-NAME (200μM), a nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor. The mRNA expression of
NADPH oxidase (Nox) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) were also
determined. We demonstrated that (1) STZ-diabetes impaired endothelium-dependent 
vasodilatation to ACh to a greater extent in female than male aortae, (2)
inhibition of superoxide enhanced sensitivity to ACh only in diabetic females,
and (3) Nox1 and Nox4 mRNA expression were significantly elevated only in aortic 
tissue of diabetic females. Furthermore, incubation of aortic rings with l-NAME
potentiated PE responses in all groups, but aortae from control females showed a 
greater potentiation of the PE response after NOS inhibition compared with
others. STZ-diabetes reduced the extent of PE potentiation after l-NAME and the
aortic eNOS mRNA expression in females to the same levels as seen in males. These
data suggest that a decrease in NO, resulting from either decreased eNOS or
elevated superoxide, may partially contribute to the predisposition of the female
aorta to injury early in diabetes.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2013.10.052 
PMCID: PMC3946273
PMID: 24211329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2815-37. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5703.
Epub 2014 Jan 16.

New insights on NOX enzymes in the central nervous system.

Nayernia Z(1), Jaquet V, Krause KH.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Pathology and Immunology, Geneva Medical Faculty, Geneva
University Hospitals, Centre Médical Universitaire , Geneva, Switzerland .

SIGNIFICANCE: There is increasing evidence that the generation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) in the central nervous system (CNS) involves the NOX family of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidases. Controlled ROS generation
appears necessary for optimal functioning of the CNS through fine-tuning of
redox-sensitive signaling pathways, while overshooting ROS generation will lead
to oxidative stress and CNS disease.
RECENT ADVANCES: NOX enzymes are not only restricted to microglia (i.e. brain
phagocytes) but also expressed in neurons, astrocytes, and the neurovascular
system. NOX enzymes are involved in CNS development, neural stem cell biology,
and the function of mature neurons. While NOX2 appears to be a major source of
pathological oxidative stress in the CNS, other NOX isoforms might also be of
importance, for example, NOX4 in stroke. Globally speaking, there is now
convincing evidence for a role of NOX enzymes in various neurodegenerative
diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, and psychosis-related disorders.
CRITICAL ISSUES: The relative importance of specific ROS sources (e.g., NOX
enzymes vs. mitochondria; NOX2 vs. NOX4) in different pathological processes
needs further investigation. The absence of specific inhibitors limits the
possibility to investigate specific therapeutic strategies. The uncritical use of
non-specific inhibitors (e.g., apocynin, diphenylene iodonium) and poorly
validated antibodies may lead to misleading conclusions.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Physiological and pathophysiological studies with
cell-type-specific knock-out mice will be necessary to delineate the precise
functions of NOX enzymes and their implications in pathomechanisms. The
development of CNS-permeant, specific NOX inhibitors will be necessary to advance
toward therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5703 
PMCID: PMC4026375
PMID: 24206089  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2014 Mar;25(3):475-87. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2013040424. Epub 2013
Nov 7.

The transcription factor E26 transformation-specific sequence-1 mediates
neointima formation in arteriovenous fistula.

Feng W(1), Chumley P, Allon M, George J, Scott DW, Patel RP, Litovsky S, Jaimes
EA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Nephrology.

Hemodialysis vascular access dysfunction contributes to increased morbidity and
mortality in hemodialysis patients. Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) is the preferred 
type of vascular access for hemodialysis but has high rates of dysfunction, in
part because of excessive neointima formation. The transcription factor E26
transformation-specific sequence-1 (ETS-1) is a mediator of proinflammatory
responses in hypertension and endovascular injury. We examined the role of ETS-1 
in the formation of neointima in AVF. Right carotid artery to internal jugular
vein fistulas were created in C57BL/6 mice and assigned to treatment with an
ETS-1-dominant negative peptide (ETS-DN), an inactive mutant peptide (ETS-MU), or
vehicle (n=6 per group). After 7 and 21 days, AVFs or contralateral internal
jugular veins were processed for PCR, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry,
and morphometry. In AVFs, ETS-1 mRNA increased 2.5-fold at 7 days and 4-fold at
21 days. By immunofluorescence, we confirmed increased expression of ETS-1
predominantly in the neointima and overlying endothelium. Similarly, ETS-1
expression increased in human AVFs compared with normal veins. In mice, ETS-DN,
but not ETS-MU, reduced neointima formation at days 7 and 21 and reduced the
expression of nitric oxide synthase 2, NADPH oxidase (NOX) 2, NOX4, E-selectin,
and monocyte chemotactic protein-1. Shear stress increased ETS-1 phosphorylation 
in human umbilical vein cells in a NOX-dependent manner, demonstrating a role for
reactive oxygen species in ETS-1 activation. These results unveil the role of
ETS-1 as a mediator of neointima formation in AVF and may result in the
development of novel strategies for the treatment of AVF dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2013040424 
PMCID: PMC3935588
PMID: 24203999  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Am J Physiol Renal Physiol. 2014 Jan 1;306(1):F85-97. doi:
10.1152/ajprenal.00371.2013. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Src tyrosine kinase mediates platelet-derived growth factor BB-induced and
redox-dependent migration in metanephric mesenchymal cells.

Wagner B(1), Gorin Y.

Author information: 
(1)South Texas Veterans Health Care System, Div. of Nephrology MC 7882, 7703
Floyd Curl Dr., San Antonio, TX 78229-3900. wagnerb@uthscsa.edu.

The adult kidney is derived from the interaction between the metanephric blastema
and the ureteric bud. Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) receptor β is
essential for the development of the mature glomerular tuft, as mice deficient
for this receptor lack mesangial cells. This study investigated the role of Src
tyrosine kinase in PDGF-mediated reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and
migration of metanephric mesenchymal cells (MMCs). Cultured embryonic MMCs from
wild-type and PDGF receptor-deficient embryos were established. Migration was
determined via wound-healing assay. Unlike PDGF AA, PDGF BB-induced greater
migration in MMCs with respect to control. This was abrogated by neutralizing an 
antibody to PDGF BB. Phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitors suppressed
PDGF BB-induced migration. Conversely, mitogen-activated protein
kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) inhibitors had no effect. Src 
inhibitors inhibited PDGF-induced cell migration, PI3K activity, and Akt
phosphorylation. Adenoviral dominant negative Src (AD DN Src) abrogated PDGF
BB-induced Akt phosphorylation. Hydrogen peroxide stimulated cell migration. PDGF
BB-induced wound closure was inhibited by the antioxidants N-acetyl-l-cysteine,
tiron, and the flavoprotein inhibitor diphenyleneiodonium. These cells express
the NADPH oxidase homolog Nox4. Inhibiting Nox4 with antisense oligonucleotides
or small interfering RNA (siRNA) suppressed PDGF-induced wound closure.
Inhibition of Src with siRNA reduced PDGF BB-induced ROS generation as assessed
by 2',7'-dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate fluorescence. Furthermore, PDGF
BB-stimulated ROS generation and migration were similarly suppressed by Ad DN
Src. In MMCs, PDGF BB-induced migration is mediated by PI3K and Src in a
redox-dependent manner involving Nox4. Src may be upstream to PI3K and Nox4.

DOI: 10.1152/ajprenal.00371.2013 
PMCID: PMC3921824
PMID: 24197068  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2794-814. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5607.
Epub 2013 Nov 1.

NADPH oxidases in vascular pathology.

Konior A(1), Schramm A, Czesnikiewicz-Guzik M, Guzik TJ.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Internal Medicine, Jagiellonian University School of Medicine 
, Cracow, Poland .

SIGNIFICANCE: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a critical role in vascular
disease. While there are many possible sources of ROS, nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidases play a central role. They are a source of
"kindling radicals," which affect other enzymes, such as nitric oxide synthase
endothelial nitric oxide synthase or xanthine oxidase. This is important, as risk
factors for atherosclerosis (hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and
smoking) regulate the expression and activity of NADPH oxidases in the vessel
wall.
RECENT ADVANCES: There are seven isoforms in mammals: Nox1, Nox2, Nox3, Nox4,
Nox5, Duox1 and Duox2. Nox1, Nox2, Nox4, and Nox5 are expressed in endothelium,
vascular smooth muscle cells, fibroblasts, or perivascular adipocytes. Other
homologues have not been found or are expressed at very low levels; their roles
have not been established. Nox1/Nox2 promote the development of endothelial
dysfunction, hypertension, and inflammation. Nox4 may have a role in protecting
the vasculature during stress; however, when its activity is increased, it may be
detrimental. Calcium-dependent Nox5 has been implicated in oxidative damage in
human atherosclerosis.
CRITICAL ISSUES: NADPH oxidase-derived ROS play a role in vascular pathology as
well as in the maintenance of normal physiological vascular function. We also
discuss recently elucidated mechanisms such as the role of NADPH oxidases in
vascular protection, vascular inflammation, pulmonary hypertension, tumor
angiogenesis, and central nervous system regulation of vascular function and
hypertension.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Understanding the role of individual oxidases and interactions
between homologues in vascular disease is critical for efficient pharmacological 
regulation of vascular NADPH oxidases in both the laboratory and clinical
practice.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5607 
PMCID: PMC4026218
PMID: 24180474  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Thyroid. 2014 Mar;24(3):441-52. doi: 10.1089/thy.2013.0142. Epub 2013 Dec 13.

Differential regulation of the production of reactive oxygen species in Th1
cytokine-treated thyroid cells.

Colin IM(1), Poncin S, Levêque P, Gallez B, Gérard AC.

Author information: 
(1)1 Morphology Research Group, Institute of Experimental and Clinical Research
(IREC), Medical Sector, Catholic University of Louvain , Brussels, Belgium .

BACKGROUND: Th1 cytokines exert pleiotropic effects in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Previous studies reported a downregulation of thyroperoxidase and dual oxidase
(DUOX) protein and mRNA expression in thyroid cells treated with Th1 cytokines.
Although this effect is partially mediated by intracellular reactive oxygen
species (ROS) and reactive nitrogen species, the nature and the source of the ROS
involved are currently unknown. The aim of this study was to examine further the 
nature and source of the ROS produced in response to Th1 cytokines.
METHODS: Two rat thyroid cell lines (PCCL3 and FRTL-5) and human thyrocytes were 
incubated with Th1 cytokines (interleukin [IL]-1α and interferon-γ) in the
presence or absence of the Th2 cytokine IL-4, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor
N-nitroso-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), or the synthetic antioxidant
N-acetylcysteine. The nature and source of the intracellular and extracellular
ROS produced were determined.
RESULTS: A rapid increase in intracellular ROS was observed in cells incubated
with Th1 cytokines. This increase was not caused by extracellular hydrogen
peroxide (H2O2) produced by DUOX because both DUOX expression and extracellular
H2O2 synthesis were decreased by Th1 cytokines. Confocal colocalization
experiments showed that the Th1 cytokine-triggered ROS were not produced from
mitochondria. Electron paramagnetic resonance investigations of PCCL3 cells
indicated that the highly reactive hydroxyl radical was not involved in the
response to Th1 cytokines. NOX2 mRNA expression was significantly increased in
PCCL3 cells incubated with Th1 cytokines, as was the expression of the protein in
the thyroid of Hashimoto's thyroiditis patients. NOX4 expression was by contrast 
unaffected. These results suggest that at least superoxide could be produced
after exposure of thyroid cells to Th1 cytokines. The effects of L-NAME and IL-4,
both of which partially or totally reverse Th1 cytokine-induced effects, on ROS
release were also analyzed. L-NAME and IL-4 significantly reduced the Th1
cytokine-induced surge of intracellular ROS in PCCL3 and human thyroid cells.
CONCLUSION: The data presented here reinforce the idea that ROS, other than
extracellular H2O2 produced by DUOX, are released from NOX2 after exposure of
thyroid cells to Th1 cytokines. ROS/reactive nitrogen species act as important,
but as further explained, not exclusive intracellular mediators of Th1
cytokine-induced effects in thyroid cells.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2013.0142 
PMID: 24073824  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Cardiovasc Toxicol. 2014 Mar;14(1):83-97. doi: 10.1007/s12012-013-9227-x.

Silibinin potentially attenuates arsenic-induced oxidative stress mediated
cardiotoxicity and dyslipidemia in rats.

Muthumani M(1), Prabu SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Annamalai University,
Annamalainagar, 608002, Tamilnadu, India.

Cardiac dysfunction is one of the major causes of mortality and morbidity
throughout the world. Chronic exposure of arsenic (As) mainly leads to
cardiotoxic effect. Cardiotoxicity was induced by the sodium arsenite as the
source of As (5 mg/kg BW, PO) for 4 weeks. As intoxication significantly
(p < 0.05) increased the serum cardiac markers, viz. creatine kinase-MB, lactate 
dehydrogenase, aspartate transaminase, alanine transaminase and alkaline
phosphatase, oxidative stress markers in heart, plasma total cholesterol (TC),
triglycerides (TG), phospholipids (PL), free fatty acids (FFA), low density
lipoprotein cholesterol, very low density lipoprotein cholesterol as well as
cardiac lipid profile (TC, TG and FFA) and significantly (p < 0.05) decreased the
level of serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol, cardiac PL, mitochondrial
enzymes such as ICDH, SDH, MDH, α-KDH and NADH dehydrogenase, levels of enzymatic
antioxidant, nonenzymatic antioxidants and membrane-bound ATPases in heart. In
addition, As-intoxicated rats showed a significant (p < 0.05) up-regulation of
myocardial NADPH (NOX) oxidase sub units such as NOX2 and NOX4 as well as Keap-1 
and down-regulation of Nrf2 and HO-1 protein expressions. Pre-administration of
silibinin (SB) (75 mg/kg BW) remarkably recovered all these altered parameters to
near normalcy in As-induced cardiotoxic rat. Moreover, the light microscopic and 
transmission electron microscopic study further supports the protective efficacy 
of SB on the heart mitochondria. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that SB has 
a potential to extenuate the arsenic-induced cardiotoxicity and dyslipidemia in
rat.

DOI: 10.1007/s12012-013-9227-x 
PMID: 24062023  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2726-40. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5357.
Epub 2013 Oct 30.

NADPH oxidase, NOX1, mediates vascular injury in ischemic retinopathy.

Wilkinson-Berka JL(1), Deliyanti D, Rana I, Miller AG, Agrotis A, Armani R,
Szyndralewiez C, Wingler K, Touyz RM, Cooper ME, Jandeleit-Dahm KA, Schmidt HH.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Immunology, Monash University , Melbourne, Australia .

AIMS: Ischemic retinal diseases such as retinopathy of prematurity are major
causes of blindness due to damage to the retinal microvasculature. Despite this
clinical situation, retinopathy of prematurity is mechanistically poorly
understood. Therefore, effective preventative therapies are not available.
However, hypoxic-induced increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been
suggested to be involved with NADPH oxidases (NOX), the only known dedicated
enzymatic source of ROS. Our major aim was to determine the contribution of NOX
isoforms (1, 2, and 4) to a rodent model of retinopathy of prematurity.
RESULTS: Using a genetic approach, we determined that only mice with a deletion
of NOX1, but not NOX2 or NOX4, were protected from retinal neovascularization and
vaso-obliteration, adhesion of leukocytes, microglial accumulation, and the
increased generation of proangiogenic and proinflammatory factors and ROS. We
complemented these studies by showing that the specific NOX inhibitor, GKT137831,
reduced vasculopathy and ROS levels in retina. The source of NOX isoforms was
evaluated in retinal vascular cells and neuro-glial elements. Microglia, the
immune cells of the retina, expressed NOX1, 2, and 4 and responded to hypoxia
with increased ROS formation, which was reduced by GKT137831.
INNOVATION: Our studies are the first to identify the NOX1 isoform as having an
important role in the pathogenesis of retinopathy of prematurity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that strategies targeting NOX1 have the
potential to be effective treatments for a range of ischemic retinopathies.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5357 
PMCID: PMC4026404
PMID: 24053718  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jan 10;20(2):281-94. doi: 10.1089/ars.2012.4918. Epub
2013 Oct 30.

Nox2-induced production of mitochondrial superoxide in angiotensin II-mediated
endothelial oxidative stress and hypertension.

Dikalov SI(1), Nazarewicz RR, Bikineyeva A, Hilenski L, Lassègue B, Griendling
KK, Harrison DG, Dikalova AE.

Author information: 
(1)1 Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center ,
Nashville, Tennessee.

AIMS: Angiotensin II (AngII)-induced superoxide (O2(•-)) production by the NADPH 
oxidases and mitochondria has been implicated in the pathogenesis of endothelial 
dysfunction and hypertension. In this work, we investigated the specific
molecular mechanisms responsible for the stimulation of mitochondrial O2(•-) and 
its downstream targets using cultured human aortic endothelial cells and a mouse 
model of AngII-induced hypertension.
RESULTS: Western blot analysis showed that Nox2 and Nox4 were present in the
cytoplasm but not in the mitochondria. Depletion of Nox2, but not Nox1, Nox4, or 
Nox5, using siRNA inhibits AngII-induced O2(•-) production in both mitochondria
and cytoplasm. Nox2 depletion in gp91phox knockout mice inhibited AngII-induced
cellular and mitochondrial O2(•-) and attenuated hypertension. Inhibition of
mitochondrial reverse electron transfer with malonate, malate, or rotenone
attenuated AngII-induced cytoplasmic and mitochondrial O2(•-) production.
Inhibition of the mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channel (mitoK(+)ATP)
with 5-hydroxydecanoic acid or specific PKCɛ peptide antagonist (EAVSLKPT)
reduced AngII-induced H2O2 in isolated mitochondria and diminished cytoplasmic
O2(•-). The mitoK(+)ATP agonist diazoxide increased mitochondrial O2(•-),
cytoplasmic c-Src phosphorylation and cytoplasmic O2(•-) suggesting feed-forward 
regulation of cellular O2(•-) by mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS).
Treatment of AngII-infused mice with malate reduced blood pressure and enhanced
the antihypertensive effect of mitoTEMPO. Mitochondria-targeted H2O2 scavenger
mitoEbselen attenuated redox-dependent c-Src and inhibited AngII-induced cellular
O2(•-), diminished aortic H2O2, and reduced blood pressure in hypertensive mice.
INNOVATION AND CONCLUSIONS: These studies show that Nox2 stimulates mitochondrial
ROS by activating reverse electron transfer and both mitochondrial O2(•-) and
reverse electron transfer may represent new pharmacological targets for the
treatment of hypertension.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4918 
PMCID: PMC3887459
PMID: 24053613  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Bone Miner Metab. 2014 Jul;32(4):393-9. doi: 10.1007/s00774-013-0516-z. Epub
2013 Sep 20.

Phosphate enhances reactive oxygen species production and suppresses osteoblastic
differentiation.

Okamoto T(1), Taguchi M, Osaki T, Fukumoto S, Fujita T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, 
Bunkyoku, Tokyo, 113-8655, Japan, tonotoka@gmail.com.

Phosphate has been shown to work as a signaling molecule in several cells
including endothelial cells and chondrocytes. However, it is largely unknown how 
phosphate affects osteoblastic cells. In the present study, we investigated the
effects of phosphate on reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and osteoblastic
differentiation in murine osteoblastic MC3T3-E1 cells. Phosphate increased
production of ROS in MC3T3-E1 cells and the inhibitors of sodium-phosphate
cotransporter and NADPH oxidase suppressed ROS production by phosphate. Silencing
Nox1 and Nox4 also inhibited the increase of ROS by phosphate. Phosphate also
decreased alkaline phosphatase activity induced by bone morphogenetic protein 2
and this inhibition was abrogated by an inhibitor of NADPH oxidase. Furthermore, 
phosphate decreased the expression of osteoblastic marker genes in MC3T3-E1
cells. These results indicate that phosphate suppresses osteoblastic
differentiation at least in part by enhancing ROS production in MC3T3-E1 cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-013-0516-z 
PMID: 24052209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. FASEB J. 2014 Jan;28(1):265-74. doi: 10.1096/fj.13-240028. Epub 2013 Sep 16.

Activation of Rap1 inhibits NADPH oxidase-dependent ROS generation in retinal
pigment epithelium and reduces choroidal neovascularization.

Wang H(1), Jiang Y, Shi D, Quilliam LA, Chrzanowska-Wodnicka M, Wittchen ES, Li
DY, Hartnett ME.

Author information: 
(1)1John A. Moran Eye Center, University of Utah, 65 N. Mario Capecchi Dr., Salt 
Lake City, UT 84132. me.hartnett@hsc.utah.edu.

Activation of Rap1 GTPase can improve the integrity of the barrier of the retina 
pigment epithelium (RPE) and reduce choroidal neovascularization (CNV).
Inhibition of NADPH oxidase activation also reduces CNV. We hypothesize that Rap1
inhibits NADPH oxidase-generated ROS and thereby reduces CNV formation. Using a
murine model of laser-induced CNV, we determined that reduced Rap1 activity in
RPE/choroid occurred with CNV formation and that activation of Rap1 by
2'-O-Me-cAMP (8CPT)-reduced laser-induced CNV via inhibiting NADPH
oxidase-generated ROS. In RPE, inhibition of Rap1 by Rap1 GTPase-activating
protein (Rap1GAP) increased ROS generation, whereas activation of Rap1 by 8CPT
reduced ROS by interfering with the assembly of NADPH oxidase membrane subunit
p22phox with NOX4 or cytoplasmic subunit p47phox. Activation of NADPH oxidase
with Rap1GAP reduced RPE barrier integrity via cadherin phosphorylation and
facilitated choroidal EC migration across the RPE monolayer. Rap1GAP-induced ROS 
generation was inhibited by active Rap1a, but not Rap1b, and activation of Rap1a 
by 8CPT in Rap1b(-/-) mice reduced laser-induced CNV, in correlation with
decreased ROS generation in RPE/choroid. These findings provide evidence that
active Rap1 reduces CNV by interfering with the assembly of NADPH oxidase
subunits and increasing the integrity of the RPE barrier.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.13-240028 
PMCID: PMC3868836
PMID: 24043260  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Exp Cell Res. 2014 Jan 1;320(1):144-52. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2013.09.005. Epub
2013 Sep 13.

High glucose increases glomerular filtration barrier permeability by activating
protein kinase G type Iα subunits in a Nox4-dependent manner.

Piwkowska A(1), Rogacka D, Audzeyenka I, Angielski S, Jankowski M.

Author information: 
(1)Mossakowski Medical Research Centre Polish Academy of Sciences, Laboratory of 
Molecular and Cellular Nephrology Dębinki 7, Gdańsk 80-211, Poland. Electronic
address: apiwkowska@cmdik.pan.pl.

Hyperglycemia is a primary factor that disturbs podocyte function in the
glomerular filtration process; this disturbance leads to the development of
diabetic nephropathy, and ultimately, renal failure. Podocyte function may also
be altered by biological agents that modify protein kinase activity, including
the cGMP-activated protein kinase type Iα (PKGIα). We hypothesized that
hyperglycemia-induced podocyte protein hyperpermeability was dependent on PKGIα
activation, and that PKGIα was activated via dimerization induced by reactive
oxygen species. This hypothesis was investigated in rat podocytes cultured in
high glucose (HG, 30 mM). Protein expression was measured with Western blot and
immunofluorescence. Podocyte permeability was measured with a transmembrane
albumin flux assay. We found that HG increased podocyte permeability in long-term
incubations (1, 3, and 5 days); permeability was increased by 66% on day 5. This 
effect was abolished with apocynin, a NAD(P)H inhibitor, and Rp-8-Br-cGMPS, a PKG
inhibitor. It was also abolished by introducing small interfering RNAs (siRNAs)
against Nox4 and PKGIα into cultured podocytes. Furthermore, HG increased PKGIα
dimerization by 138% (0.23 ± 0.04 vs. 0.54 ± 0.09; P<0.05); this effect was
abolished with a siRNA against Nox4. Our observations suggested that HG could
increase albumin permeability across the podocyte filtration barrier via
Nox4-dependent PKGIα dimerization.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2013.09.005 
PMID: 24041960  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jun 10;20(17):2854-72. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5619.
Epub 2014 Jan 24.

Role of NADPH oxidases in liver fibrosis.

Paik YH(1), Kim J, Aoyama T, De Minicis S, Bataller R, Brenner DA.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Medicine, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University
School of Medicine , Seoul, Korea.

SIGNIFICANCE: Hepatic fibrosis is the common pathophysiologic process resulting
from chronic liver injury, characterized by the accumulation of an excessive
extracellular matrix. Multiple lines of evidence indicate that oxidative stress
plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of liver fibrosis. Nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (NOX) is a multicomponent enzyme complex
that generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) in response to a wide range of
stimuli. In addition to phagocytic NOX2, there are six nonphagocytic NOX
proteins.
RECENT ADVANCES: In the liver, NOX is functionally expressed both in the
phagocytic form and in the nonphagocytic form. NOX-derived ROS contributes to
various kinds of liver disease caused by alcohol, hepatitis C virus, and toxic
bile acids. Recent evidence indicates that both phagocytic NOX2 and nonphagocytic
NOX isoforms, including NOX1 and NOX4, mediate distinct profibrogenic actions in 
hepatic stellate cells, the main fibrogenic cell type in the liver. The critical 
role of NOX in hepatic fibrogenesis provides a rationale to assess
pharmacological NOX inhibitors that treat hepatic fibrosis in patients with
chronic liver disease.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Although there is compelling evidence indicating a crucial role 
for NOX-mediated ROS generation in hepatic fibrogenesis, little is known about
the expression, subcellular localization, regulation, and redox signaling of NOX 
isoforms in specific cell types in the liver. Moreover, the exact mechanism of
NOX-mediated fibrogenic signaling is still largely unknown.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: A better understanding through further research about
NOX-mediated fibrogenic signaling may enable the development of novel
anti-fibrotic therapy using NOX inhibition strategy. Antio

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5619 
PMCID: PMC4026397
PMID: 24040957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Cardiovasc Pathol. 2014 Jan-Feb;23(1):35-42. doi: 10.1016/j.carpath.2013.08.003. 
Epub 2013 Sep 12.

Altered vascular activation due to deficiency of the NADPH oxidase component
p22phox.

Wang H(1), Albadawi H, Siddiquee Z, Stone JM, Panchenko MP, Watkins MT, Stone JR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Department of
Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Reactive oxygen species generated by nicotinamide adenine
dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase play important roles in vascular
activation. The p22(phox) subunit is necessary for the activity of NADPH oxidase 
complexes utilizing Nox1, Nox2, Nox3, and Nox4 catalytic subunits.
METHODS: We assessed p22(phox)-deficient mice and human tissue for altered
vascular activation.
RESULTS: Mice deficient in p22(phox) were smaller than their wild-type
littermates but showed no alteration in basal blood pressure. The wild-type
littermates were relatively resistant to forming intimal hyperplasia following
carotid ligation, and the intimal hyperplasia that developed was not altered by
p22(phox) deficiency. However, at the site of carotid artery ligation, the
p22(phox)-deficient mice showed significantly less vascular elastic fiber loss
compared with their wild-type littermates. This preservation of elastic fibers
was associated with a reduced matrix metallopeptidase (MMP) 12/tissue inhibitor
of metalloproteinase (TIMP) 1 expression ratio. A similar decrease in the
relative MMP12/TIMP1 expression ratio occurred in human coronary artery smooth
muscle cells upon knockdown of the hydrogen peroxide responsive kinase CK1αLS. In
the ligated carotid arteries, the p22(phox)-deficient mice showed reduced
expression of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein C (hnRNP-C), suggesting
reduced activity of CK1αLS. In a lung biopsy from a human patient with p22(phox) 
deficiency, there was also reduced vascular hnRNP-C expression.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that NADPH oxidase complexes modulate
aspects of vascular activation including vascular elastic fiber loss, the
MMP12/TIMP1 expression ratio, and the expression of hnRNP-C. Furthermore, these
findings suggest that the effects of NADPH oxidase on vascular activation are
mediated in part by protein kinase CK1αLS.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carpath.2013.08.003 
PMID: 24035466  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol. 2014 Jan;50(1):158-69. doi: 10.1165/rcmb.2013-0174OC.

An inhibitor of NADPH oxidase-4 attenuates established pulmonary fibrosis in a
rodent disease model.

Jarman ER(1), Khambata VS, Cope C, Jones P, Roger J, Ye LY, Duggan N, Head D,
Pearce A, Press NJ, Bellenie B, Sohal B, Jarai G.

Author information: 
(1)Respiratory Disease Area, Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research,
Horsham, West Sussex, United Kingdom.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a chronic progressive disease of increasing
prevalence for which there is no effective therapy. Increased oxidative stress
associated with an oxidant-antioxidant imbalance is thought to contribute to
disease progression. NADPH oxidases (Nox) are a primary source of reactive oxygen
species within the lung and cardiovascular system. We demonstrate that the Nox4
isoform is up-regulated in the lungs of patients with IPF and in a rodent model
of bleomycin-induced pulmonary fibrosis and vascular remodeling. Nox4 is
constitutively active, and therefore increased expression levels are likely to
contribute to disease pathology. Using a small molecule Nox4/Nox1 inhibitor, we
demonstrate that targeting Nox4 results in attenuation of an established fibrotic
response, with reductions in gene transcripts for the extracellular matrix
components collagen 1α1, collagen 3α1, and fibronectin and in principle pathway
components associated with pulmonary fibrosis and hypoxia-mediated vascular
remodeling: transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1, plasminogen activator
inhibitor-1, hypoxia-inducible factor, and Nox4. TGF-β1 is a principle fibrotic
mediator responsible for inducing up-regulation of profibrotic pathways
associated with disease pathology. Using normal human lung-derived primary
fibroblasts, we demonstrate that inhibition of Nox4 activity using a small
molecule antagonist attenuates TGF-β1-mediated up-regulation in expression of
profibrotic genes and inhibits the differentiation of fibroblast to
myofibroblasts, that is associated with up-regulation in smooth muscle actin and 
acquisition of a contractile phenotype. These studies support the view that
targeting Nox4 may provide a therapeutic approach for attenuating pulmonary
fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1165/rcmb.2013-0174OC 
PMID: 23977848  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Cell Biol Int. 2014 Jan;38(1):32-40. doi: 10.1002/cbin.10170. Epub 2013 Sep 12.

Hypoxia induces adipocyte differentiation of adipose-derived stem cells by
triggering reactive oxygen species generation.

Kim JH(1), Kim SH, Song SY, Kim WS, Song SU, Yi T, Jeon MS, Chung HM, Xia Y, Sung
JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Bioscience, CHA University, Seoul, Korea; Stem Cell
Research Laboratory, CHA Stem Cell Institute, Seoul, Korea.

Generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by NADPH oxidase 4 (Nox4) induces the
proliferation and migration of adipose-derived stem cells (ASCs). However, the
functional role of mitochondrial ROS (mtROS) generation in ASCs is unknown.
Therefore, we have investigated whether hypoxia induces the differentiation of
ASCs via ROS generation. We also have tried to identify the cellular mechanisms
of ROS generation underlying adipocyte differentiation. Hypoxia (2%) and ROS
generators, such as antimycin and rotenone, induced adipocyte differentiation,
which was attenuated by an ROS scavenger. Although Nox4 generates ROS and
regulates proliferation of ASCs, Nox4 inhibition or Nox4 silencing did not
inhibit adipocyte differentiation; indeed fluorescence intensity of mito-SOX
increased in hypoxia, and treatment with mito-CP, a mtROS scavenger,
significantly reduced hypoxia-induced adipocyte differentiation. Phosphorylation 
of Akt and mTOR was induced by hypoxia, while inhibition of these molecules
prevented adipocyte differentiation. Thus hypoxia induces adipocyte
differentiation by mtROS generation, and the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway is involved.

© 2013 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.10170 
PMID: 23956071  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Nanomedicine. 2014 Feb;10(2):329-37. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.07.015. Epub 2013
Aug 6.

High efficacy gold-KDEL peptide-siRNA nanoconstruct-mediated transfection in
C2C12 myoblasts and myotubes.

Acharya S(1), Hill RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal and Veterinary Science, University of Idaho, Moscow, ID, 
USA.
(2)Department of Animal and Veterinary Science, University of Idaho, Moscow, ID, 
USA. Electronic address: rodhill@uidaho.edu.

Gold nanoparticles (AuNP) were conjugated with cysteine terminated KDEL
(Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu) peptide and siRNA directed against NADPH Oxidase 4 (Nox4).
Fluorescence microscopy analysis provided evidence of cytocellular retrograde
transport pathways and sub-cellular colocalization of AuNP nanoconstructs in both
undifferentiated C2C12 myoblasts and differentiated C2C12 myotubes. The cellular 
trafficking of AuNP nanoconstructs in undifferentiated myoblasts suggests stable 
and efficient transfection of siRNA as demonstrated by colocalization of
AuNP-delivered KDEL and siRNA. The cellular uptake of AuNP nanoconstructs was
more efficient than Lipofectamine mediated transfection in differentiated
myotubes (P<0.05) compared to undifferentiated myoblasts, suggesting that AuNP
nanoconstructs provide an efficient platform for siRNA delivery to differentiated
myotubes. The localization of these nanoconstructs in undifferentiated myoblasts 
suggests that most of the siRNA was localized in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
with a minimal distribution in the Golgi bodies suggesting that the ER is a
primary localization site for AuNP-KDEL mediated delivery of nanoconstructs.FROM 
THE CLINICAL EDITOR: This team of investigators demonstrate that a delivery
system composed of gold nanoparticle and KDEL based siRNA is superior to
lipofectamine in delivering siRNA in differentiated myoblasts, paving the way to 
gene silencing methods in these cells for future therapeutic exploitation.

© 2014.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.07.015 
PMID: 23928216  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Cell Stress Chaperones. 2014 Jan;19(1):115-34. doi: 10.1007/s12192-013-0439-6.
Epub 2013 Jun 13.

Hsp70 regulation on Nox4/p22phox and cytoskeletal integrity as an effect of
losartan in vascular smooth muscle cells.

Gil Lorenzo AF(1), Bocanegra V, Benardon ME, Cacciamani V, Vallés PG.

Author information: 
(1)IMBECU-CONICET (National Council of Scientific and Technical Research of
Argentina), Mendoza, Argentina.

A series of signaling cascades are activated after angiotensin II binds to
angiotensin II type I receptor (AT1R), a peptide that is an important mediator of
oxidative stress. Hsp70 regulates a diverse set of signaling pathways through
interactions with proteins. Here, we tested the hypothesis of angiotensin II AT1R
inhibition effect on Hsp70 interaction with Nox4/p22phox complex and Hsp70
leading to actin cytoskeleton modulation in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR)
vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). SHR and Wistar-Kyotto rats (VSMCs from 8 to
10 weeks) were stimulated with angiotensin II (100 nmol/L) for 15 min (AII),
treated with losartan (100 nmol/L) for 90 min (L), and with losartan for 90 min
plus angiotensin in the last 15 min (L + AII). Whereas SHR VSMCs exposure to
angiotensin II overexpressed AT1R and Nox4 nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide
phosphate (NADPH) oxidase and slightly downregulated caveolin-1 expression,
losartan decreased AT1R protein levels and increased caveolin-1 and Hsp70
expression in SHR VSMC membranes. Immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence
confocal microscopy proved interaction and colocalization of membrane
translocated Hsp70 and Nox4/p22phox. Increased levels of Hsp70 contrast with the 
decreased immunoprecipitation of Nox4/p22phox and RhoA in membranes from SHR
VSMCs (L) vs SHR VSMCs (AII). Hsp72 depletion resulted in higher Nox4 expression 
and increased NADPH oxidase activity in VSMCs (L + AII) from SHR when contrasted 
with nontransfected VSMCs (L + AII). After Hsp72 knockdown in SHR VSMCs, losartan
could not impair angiotensin II-enhanced stress fiber formation and focal
adhesion assembly. In conclusion, our data showing a negative regulation of Hsp70
on Nox4/p22phox demonstrates a possible mechanism in explaining the antioxidative
function joined to cytoskeletal integrity modulation within the effects of
losartan in VSMCs from SHR.

DOI: 10.1007/s12192-013-0439-6 
PMCID: PMC3857436
PMID: 23761196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jan 1;20(1):164-82. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5302. Epub 
2013 Jun 6.

Reactive oxygen species, vascular Noxs, and hypertension: focus on translational 
and clinical research.

Montezano AC(1), Touyz RM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cardiovascular and Medical Sciences, BHF Glasgow Cardiovascular
Research Centre, University of Glasgow , Glasgow, United Kingdom .

SIGNIFICANCE: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are signaling molecules that are
important in physiological processes, including host defense, aging, and cellular
homeostasis. Increased ROS bioavailability and altered redox signaling (oxidative
stress) have been implicated in the onset and/or progression of chronic diseases,
including hypertension.
RECENT ADVANCES: Although oxidative stress may not be the only cause of
hypertension, it amplifies blood pressure elevation in the presence of other
pro-hypertensive factors, such as salt loading, activation of the
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, and sympathetic hyperactivity, at least in 
experimental models. A major source for ROS in the cardiovascular-renal system is
a family of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidases (Noxs),
including the prototypic Nox2-based Nox, and Nox family members: Nox1, Nox4, and 
Nox5.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Although extensive experimental data support a role for
increased ROS levels and altered redox signaling in the pathogenesis of
hypertension, the role in clinical hypertension is unclear, as a direct causative
role of ROS in blood pressure elevation has yet to be demonstrated in humans.
Nevertheless, what is becoming increasingly evident is that abnormal ROS
regulation and aberrant signaling through redox-sensitive pathways are important 
in the pathophysiological processes which is associated with vascular injury and 
target-organ damage in hypertension.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: There is a paucity of clinical information related to the
mechanisms of oxidative stress and blood pressure elevation, and a few assays
accurately measure ROS directly in patients. Such further ROS research is needed 
in humans and in the development of adequately validated analytical methods to
accurately assess oxidative stress in the clinic.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5302 
PMCID: PMC3880913
PMID: 23600794  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Jan 1;20(1):121-34. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5262. Epub 
2013 May 1.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress and Nox-mediated reactive oxygen species signaling
in the peripheral vasculature: potential role in hypertension.

Santos CX(1), Nabeebaccus AA, Shah AM, Camargo LL, Filho SV, Lopes LR.

Author information: 
(1)1 Cardiovascular Division, King's College London British Heart Foundation
Centre of Excellence , London, United Kingdom .

SIGNIFICANCE: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are produced during normal
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) metabolism. There is accumulating evidence showing
that under stress conditions such as ER stress, ROS production is increased via
enzymes of the NADPH oxidase (Nox) family, especially via the Nox2 and Nox4
isoforms, which are involved in the regulation of blood pressure. Hypertension is
a major contributor to cardiovascular and renal disease, and it has a complex
pathophysiology involving the heart, kidney, brain, vessels, and immune system.
ER stress activates the unfolded protein response (UPR) signaling pathway that
has prosurvival and proapoptotic components.
RECENT ADVANCES: Here, we summarize the evidence regarding the association of Nox
enzymes and ER stress, and its potential contribution in the setting of
hypertension, including the role of other conditions that can lead to
hypertension (e.g., insulin resistance and diabetes).
CRITICAL ISSUES: A better understanding of this association is currently of great
interest, as it will provide further insights into the cellular mechanisms that
can drive the ER stress-induced adaptive versus maladaptive pathways linked to
hypertension and other cardiovascular conditions. More needs to be learnt about
the precise signaling regulation of Nox(es) and ER stress in the cardiovascular
system.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: The development of specific approaches that target individual 
Nox isoforms and the UPR signaling pathway may be important for the achievement
of therapeutic efficacy in hypertension.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5262 
PMCID: PMC3880927
PMID: 23472786  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

