
1. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 5;2014:685270. doi: 10.1155/2014/685270.
eCollection 2014.

Synthesis of cobalt oxides thin films fractal structures by laser chemical vapor 
deposition.

Haniam P(1), Kunsombat C(1), Chiangga S(1), Songsasen A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Kasetsart University, Bangkok
10900, Thailand.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Kasetsart University, Bangkok
10900, Thailand.

Thin films of cobalt oxides (CoO and Co3O4) fractal structures have been
synthesized by using laser chemical vapor deposition at room temperature and
atmospheric pressure. Various factors which affect the density and
crystallization of cobalt oxides fractal shapes have been examined. We show that 
the fractal structures can be described by diffusion-limited aggregation model
and discuss a new possibility to control the fractal structures.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/685270 
PMCID: PMC3930193
PMID: 24672354  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):157-65. doi: 10.1039/c3sm52358f.

Chemotactic clusters in confined run-and-tumble bacteria: a numerical
investigation.

Marsden EJ(1), Valeriani C, Sullivan I, Cates ME, Marenduzzo D.

Author information: 
(1)SUPA, School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Edinburgh, Mayfield Road,
Edinburgh EH9 3JZ, UK. e.j.marsden@sms.ed.ac.uk.

We present a simulation study of pattern formation in an ensemble of chemotactic 
run-and-tumble bacteria, focussing on the effect of spatial confinement, either
within traps or inside a maze. These geometries are inspired by previous
experiments probing pattern formation in chemotactic strains of E. coli under
these conditions. Our main result is that a microscopic model of chemotactic
run-and-tumble particles which themselves secrete a chemoattractant is able to
reproduce the main experimental observations, namely the formation of bacterial
aggregates within traps and in dead ends of a maze. Our simulations also
demonstrate that stochasticity plays a key role and leads to a hysteretic
response when the chemotactic sensitivity is varied. We compare the results of
run-and-tumble particles with simulations performed with a simplified version of 
the model where the active particles are smooth swimmers which respond to
chemotactic gradients by rotating towards the source of chemoattractant. This
class of models leads again to aggregation, but with quantitative and qualitative
differences in, for instance, the size and shape of clusters.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm52358f 
PMID: 24652099  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):48-59. doi: 10.1039/c3sm52047a.

Particle shape effects on the stress response of granular packings.

Athanassiadis AG(1), Miskin MZ, Kaplan P, Rodenberg N, Lee SH, Merritt J, Brown
E, Amend J, Lipson H, Jaeger HM.

Author information: 
(1)James Franck Institute & Department of Physics, The University of Chicago, 929
East 57th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. h-jaeger@uchicago.edu.

We present measurements of the stress response of packings formed from a wide
range of particle shapes. Besides spheres these include convex shapes such as the
Platonic solids, truncated tetrahedra, and triangular bipyramids, as well as more
complex, non-convex geometries such as hexapods with various arm lengths, dolos, 
and tetrahedral frames. All particles were 3D-printed in hard resin. Well-defined
initial packing states were established through preconditioning by cyclic loading
under given confinement pressure. Starting from such initial states,
stress-strain relationships for axial compression were obtained at four different
confining pressures for each particle type. While confining pressure has the
largest overall effect on the mechanical response, we find that particle shape
controls the details of the stress-strain curves and can be used to tune packing 
stiffness and yielding. By correlating the experimentally measured values for the
effective Young's modulus under compression, yield stress and energy loss during 
cyclic loading, we identify trends among the various shapes that allow for
designing a packing's aggregate behavior.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm52047a 
PMID: 24651965 


4. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):13-38. doi: 10.1039/c3sm51864g.

Theory and simulation studies of effective interactions, phase behavior and
morphology in polymer nanocomposites.

Ganesan V(1), Jayaraman A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of Texas, Austin, USA.
venkat@che.utexas.edu.

Polymer nanocomposites are a class of materials that consist of a polymer matrix 
filled with inorganic/organic nanoscale additives that enhance the inherent
macroscopic (mechanical, optical and electronic) properties of the polymer
matrix. Over the past few decades such materials have received tremendous
attention from experimentalists, theoreticians, and computational scientists.
These studies have revealed that the macroscopic properties of polymer
nanocomposites depend strongly on the (microscopic) morphology of the constituent
nanoscale additives in the polymer matrix. As a consequence, intense research
efforts have been directed to understand the relationships between interactions, 
morphology, and the phase behavior of polymer nanocomposites. Theory and
simulations have proven to be useful tools in this regard due to their ability to
link molecular level features of the polymer and nanoparticle additives to the
resulting morphology within the composite. In this article we review recent
theory and simulation studies, presenting briefly the methodological developments
underlying PRISM theories, density functional theory, self-consistent field
theory approaches, and atomistic and coarse-grained molecular simulations. We
first discuss the studies on polymer nanocomposites with bare or
un-functionalized nanoparticles as additives, followed by a review of recent work
on composites containing polymer grafted or functionalized nanoparticles as
additives. We conclude each section with a brief outlook on some potential future
directions.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm51864g 
PMID: 24651842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):175-86. doi: 10.1039/c3sm52091a.

Interfacial shear rheology of DPPC under physiologically relevant conditions.

Hermans E(1), Vermant J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, KU Leuven, University of Leuven, Willem de
Croylaan 46, Heverlee, Belgium. jan.vermant@cit.kuleuven.be.

Lipids, and phosphatidylcholines in particular, are major components in cell
membranes and in human lung surfactant. Their ability to encapsulate or form
stable layers suggests a significant role of the interfacial rheological
properties. In the present work we focus on the surface rheological properties of
dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC). Literature results are confusing and even 
contradictory; viscosity values have been reported differ by several orders of
magnitude. Moreover, even both purely viscous and gel-like behaviours have been
described. Assessing the literature critically, a limited experimental window has
been explored correctly, which however does not yet include conditions relevant
for the physiological state of DPPC in vivo. A complete temperature and surface
pressure analysis of the interfacial shear rheology of DPPC is performed, showing
that the monolayer behaves as a viscoelastic liquid with a domain structure. At
low frequencies and for a thermally structured monolayer, the interaction of the 
molecules within the domains can be probed. The low frequency limit of the
complex viscosity is measured over a wide range of temperatures and surface
pressures. The effects of temperature and surface pressure on the low frequency
viscosity can be analysed in terms of the effects of free molecular area.
However, at higher frequencies or following a preshear at high shear rates,
elasticity becomes important; most probably elasticity due to defects at the edge
of the domains in the layer is probed. Preshearing refines the structure and
induces more defects. As a result, disagreeing interfacial rheology results in
various publications might be due to different pre-treatments of the interface.
The obtained dataset and scaling laws enable us to describe the surface
viscosity, and its dependence under physiological conditions of DPPC. The
implications on functioning of lung surfactants and lung surfactant replacements 
will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm52091a 
PMID: 24651838  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):109-14. doi: 10.1039/c3sm52056k.

A comparison between bridges and force-chains in photoelastic disk packing.

Zhang L(1), Cai S, Hu Z, Zhang J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai
200240, China.

In a dense granular material, force-chains form naturally as a backbone to
support an external load. Due to the limitation of experimental techniques, the
determination of the force-chain network in 3D packing is rather difficult,
requiring a precise measurement of contact forces between particles. For 3D
packing under gravity, it has long been proposed that bridges form as
load-bearing structures. Identification of a bridge is relatively easy, requiring
only the geometric information of particles. Although both concepts have existed 
for years, their relationship remains elusive. In this study, we aim towards
resolving such a connection by comparing bridges and force-chains in packing of
photoelastic disks. No direct correspondence between bridges and force-chains is 
observed. In addition, when a bridge grows longer, its probability of being a
force-chain or part of the force-chain network decreases exponentially.
Nonetheless, both are consistent in distinguishing certain properties of packing 
of strong hysteresis. To test the load-bearing assumption of bridges, stresses of
particles in/out of bridges are analysed and compared and only minor differences 
are found.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm52056k 
PMID: 24651688 


7. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):196-205. doi: 10.1039/c3sm51277k.

Spontaneous and field-induced mesomorphism of a silyl-terminated bent-core liquid
crystal as determined from second-harmonic generation and resonant X-ray
scattering.

Folcia CL(1), Ortega J, Etxebarria J, Rodríguez-Conde S, Sanz-Enguita G, Geese K,
Tschierske C, Ponsinet V, Barois P, Pindak R, Pan L, Liu ZQ, McCoy BK, Huang CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Condensed Matter Physics, University of the Basque Country,
UPV/EHU, 48080 Bilbao, Spain. cesar.folcia@ehu.es.

The polarity and structure of the phases of a liquid crystal constituted by
thiophene-based bent-core molecules is investigated by means of optical
second-harmonic generation (SHG), and resonant and conventional X-ray
diffraction. The material studied is representative of a wide family of mesogens 
that contain silyl groups at the ends of the chains. These bulky terminal groups 
have been reported to give rise to smectic phases showing ferroelectric
switching. However, the analysis of the SHG signal before and after application
of electric fields has allowed us to establish unambiguously that the reported
ferroelectricity is not intrinsic to the material but stabilized by the cell
substrates once an electric field has been applied. In addition, the results
obtained from resonant X-ray diffraction indicate that virgin samples have
antiferroelectric undulated synclinic smectic structures.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm51277k 
PMID: 24651598 


8. Soft Matter. 2014 Jan 7;10(1):187-95. doi: 10.1039/c3sm50947h.

Formation of supported lipid bilayers on silica: relation to lipid phase
transition temperature and liposome size.

Jing Y(1), Trefna H, Persson M, Kasemo B, Svedhem S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, Chalmers University of Technology, SE-412 96
Göteborg, Sweden. sofia.svedhem@chalmers.se.

DPPC liposomes ranging from 90 nm to 160 nm in diameter were prepared and used
for studies of the formation of supported lipid membranes on silica (SiO2) at
temperatures below and above the gel to liquid-crystalline phase transition
temperature (Tm = 41 °C), and by applying temperature gradients through Tm. The
main method was the quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation (QCM-D)
technique. It was found that liposomes smaller than 100 nm spontaneously rupture 
on the silica surface when deposited at a temperature above Tm and at a critical 
surface coverage, following a well-established pathway. In contrast, DPPC
liposomes larger than 160 nm do not rupture on the surface when adsorbed at 22 °C
or at 50 °C. However, when liposomes of this size are first adsorbed at 22 °C and
at a high enough surface coverage, after which they are subject to a constant
temperature gradient up to 50 °C, they rupture and fuse to a bilayer, a process
that is initiated around Tm. The results are discussed and interpreted
considering a combination of effects derived from liposome-surface and
liposome-liposome interactions, different softness/stiffness and shape of
liposomes below and above Tm, the dynamics and thermal activation of the bilayers
occurring around Tm and (for liposomes containing 33% of NaCl) osmotic pressure. 
These findings are valuable both for preparation of supported lipid bilayer cell 
membrane mimics and for designing temperature-responsive material coatings.

DOI: 10.1039/c3sm50947h 
PMID: 24651504  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):013101. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Transverse current fluctuations in the Yukawa one-component plasma.

Mithen JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey GU2 7XH, United
Kingdom.

Using numerical simulations, we investigate the wave number and frequency
dependent transverse current correlation function CT(k,ω) of a single-component
fluid with Yukawa interaction potential, also known as the Yukawa one-component
plasma. The transverse current correlation function is an important quantity
because it contains the microscopic details of the viscoelastic behavior of the
fluid. We show that, in the region of densities and temperatures in which shear
waves do not propagate, the dynamics of the system are in striking agreement with
a simple model of generalized hydrodynamics. As either the density is increased
or the temperature decreased, the transverse current correlation function shows
additional structure that the simple models fail to capture.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.013101 
PMID: 24580340 


10. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012905. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Permutation entropy and statistical complexity quantifier of nonstationarity
effect in the vertical velocity records.

Li Q(1), Fu Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lab for Climate and Ocean-Atmosphere Studies, Department of Atmospheric and
Oceanic Sciences, School of Physics, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

How the nonstationarity in the atmosphere turbulent vertical velocity series
affects its organization degree of multiscale structures is quantified by
permutation entropy (PE) and complexity-entropy causality plane (CECP), and
marked PE and CECP differences are detected between the nonstationary and
stationary series. We find that the value of PE is lower in the nonstationary
vertical velocity series than the stationary counterparts. Both types of series
locate near the region of the higher complexity value in the CECP as chaotic
systems, but the PE is smaller and the complexity degree is larger in the
nonstationary series than the stationary with smaller time delays. Due to the
close relationship between PE and the multiscale Shannon entropy, we show that
the PE and CECP can be also taken as an indicator to quantify the different
organization degrees of the multiscale structures existing between the stationary
and nonstationary surface vertical velocity records.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012905 
PMID: 24580295 


11. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012903. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Spatial localization in heterogeneous systems.

Kao HC(1), Beaume C(2), Knobloch E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Wolfram Research Inc., Champaign, Illinois 61820, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, California 94720,
USA.

We study spatial localization in the generalized Swift-Hohenberg equation with
either quadratic-cubic or cubic-quintic nonlinearity subject to spatially
heterogeneous forcing. Different types of forcing (sinusoidal or Gaussian) with
different spatial scales are considered and the corresponding localized snaking
structures are computed. The results indicate that spatial heterogeneity exerts a
significant influence on the location of spatially localized structures in both
parameter space and physical space, and on their stability properties. The
results are expected to assist in the interpretation of experiments on localized 
structures where departures from spatial homogeneity are generally unavoidable.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012903 
PMID: 24580293 


12. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012902. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

First-harmonic approximation in nonlinear chirped-driven oscillators.

Uzdin R(1), Friedland L(1), Gat O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Racah Institute of Physics, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

Nonlinear classical oscillators can be excited to high energies by a weak driving
field provided the drive frequency is properly chirped. This process is known as 
autoresonance (AR). We find that for a large class of oscillators, it is
sufficient to consider only the first harmonic of the motion when studying AR,
even when the dynamics is highly nonlinear. The first harmonic approximation is
also used to relate AR in an asymmetric potential to AR in a "frequency
equivalent" symmetric potential and to study the autoresonance breakdown
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012902 
PMID: 24580292 


13. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012704. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Circumferential gap propagation in an anisotropic elastic bacterial sacculus.

Taneja S(1), Levitan BA(1), Rutenberg AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Atmospheric Science, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 
Nova Scotia, Canada B3H 4R2.

We have modeled stress concentration around small gaps in anisotropic elastic
sheets, corresponding to the peptidoglycan sacculus of bacterial cells, under
loading corresponding to the effects of turgor pressure in rod-shaped bacteria.
We find that under normal conditions the stress concentration is insufficient to 
mechanically rupture bacteria, even for gaps up to a micron in length. We then
explored the effects of stress-dependent smart autolysins, as hypothesized by A. 
L. Koch [ Adv. Microb. Physiol. 24 301 (1983); Res. Microbiol. 141 529 (1990)].
We show that the measured anisotropic elasticity of the peptidoglycan (PG)
sacculus can lead to stable circumferential propagation of small gaps in the
sacculus. This is consistent with the recent observation of circumferential
propagation of PG-associated MreB patches in rod-shaped bacteria. We also find a 
bistable regime of both circumferential and axial gap propagation, which agrees
with behavior reported in cytoskeletal mutants of B. subtilis. We conclude that
the elastic anisotropies of a bacterial sacculus, as characterized
experimentally, may be relevant for maintaining rod-shaped bacterial growth.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012704 
PMID: 24580254  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012702. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Statistical mechanical model of coupled transcription from multiple promoters due
to transcription factor titration.

Rydenfelt M(1), Cox RS 3rd(2), Garcia H(3), Phillips R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA.
(2)Technology Research Association of Highly Efficient Gene Design, Kobe
University, Hyogo 657-8501, Japan.
(3)Department of Physics, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey 08544, USA.
(4)Department of Applied Physics, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA and Division of Biology and Biological Engineering,
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125, USA.

Transcription factors (TFs) with regulatory action at multiple promoter targets
is the rule rather than the exception, with examples ranging from the cAMP
receptor protein (CRP) in E. coli that regulates hundreds of different genes
simultaneously to situations involving multiple copies of the same gene, such as 
plasmids, retrotransposons, or highly replicated viral DNA. When the number of
TFs heavily exceeds the number of binding sites, TF binding to each promoter can 
be regarded as independent. However, when the number of TF molecules is
comparable to the number of binding sites, TF titration will result in
correlation ("promoter entanglement") between transcription of different genes.
We develop a statistical mechanical model which takes the TF titration effect
into account and use it to predict both the level of gene expression for a
general set of promoters and the resulting correlation in transcription rates of 
different genes. Our results show that the TF titration effect could be important
for understanding gene expression in many regulatory settings.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012702 
PMCID: PMC4043999
PMID: 24580252  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012503. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Light-induced pitch transitions in photosensitive cholesteric liquid crystals:
effects of anchoring energy.

Orlova TN(1), Iegorov RI(2), Kiselev AD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Prospekt
Nauki 46, 03680 Kiev, Ukraine and LOMA (Laboratoire Ondes et Matiere
d'Aquitaine), University Bordeaux 1, 351 Cours de la Liberation, 33400 Talence,
France.
(2)Institute of Physics of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Prospekt
Nauki 46, 03680 Kiev, Ukraine and UFOLAB (Ultrafast Optics &amp; Lasers
Laboratory), Bilkent University, 06800 Bilkent, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Institute of Physics of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, Prospekt
Nauki 46, 03680 Kiev, Ukraine.

We experimentally study how the cholesteric pitch P depends on the equilibrium
pitch P0 in planar liquid crystal (LC) cells with both strong and semistrong
anchoring conditions. The cholesteric phase was induced by dissolution in the
nematic LC of the right-handed chiral dopant 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC,
provitamin D3) which transforms to left-handed tachysterol under the action of uv
irradiation at the wavelength of 254 nm. By using the model of photoreaction
kinetics we obtain the dependencies of isomer concentrations and, therefore, of
the equilibrium pitch on the uv irradiation dose. The cholesteric pitch was
measured as a function of irradiation time using the polarimetry method. In this 
method, the pitch is estimated from the experimental data on the irradiation time
dependence of the ellipticity of light transmitted through the LC cells. It is
found that the resulting dependence of the twist parameter 2D/P (D is the cell
thickness) on the free twisting number parameter 2D/P0 shows jumplike behavior
and agrees well with the known theoretical results for the anchoring potential of
Rapini-Papoular form.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012503 
PMID: 24580242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012502. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Electric-field-induced patterns and their temperature dependence in a bent-core
liquid crystal.

Xiang Y(1), Liu YK(2), Buka Á(3), Éber N(3), Zhang ZY(4), Xu MY(1), Wang E(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Information Engineering, Guangdong University of Technology,
Guangzhou 510006, People's Republic of China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Materials and Technologies, Sun Yat-sen
University, Guangzhou 510275, People's Republic of China.
(3)Institute for Solid State Physics and Optics, Wigner Research Centre for
Physics, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Konkoly Thege Miklós út 29-33, H-1121
Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Environmental Engineering, Wuhan Polytechnic
University, Wuhan 430023, People's Republic of China.

Two kinds of electroconvection patterns in an ether-bridged bent-core nematic
liquid crystal material (BCN), which appear in different frequency ranges, are
examined and compared. One is a longitudinal pattern with the stripes parallel to
the orientation of the BCN and with a periodicity of approximately the cell
thickness, occurring in the high-frequency range of several hundreds Hz; the
other one is oblique stripes, which results in a zigzag pattern, and appears in
the low-frequency range of several tens Hz. In addition, within an
intermediate-frequency range, transformations from oblique to longitudinal and
then to normal stripes occur at increased ac voltages. In particular, we
investigated the temperature behavior of longitudinal and oblique stripes: When
the temperature T increases and approaches the clearing temperature Tc, the
contrast of the domains is enhanced and the frequency range of existence becomes 
wider, while the onset voltages increase only moderately instead of diverging,
thus suggesting an isotropic mechanism of pattern formation.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012502 
PMID: 24580241  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012304. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Visualizing the strain evolution during the indentation of colloidal glasses.

Rahmani Y(1), Koopman R(1), Denisov D(1), Schall P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Van der Waals-Zeeman Institute, University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904,
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

We use an analog of nanoindentation on a colloidal glass to elucidate the
incipient plastic deformation of glasses. By tracking the motion of the
individual particles in three dimensions, we visualize the strain field and glass
structure during the emerging deformation. At the onset of flow, we observe a
power-law distribution of strain indicating strongly correlated deformation, and 
reflecting a critical state of the glass. At later stages, the strain acquires a 
Gaussian distribution, indicating that plastic events become uncorrelated.
Investigation of the glass structure using both static and dynamic measures shows
a weak correlation between the structure and the emerging strain distribution.
These results indicate that the onset of plasticity is governed by strong
power-law correlations of strain, weakly biased by the heterogeneous glass
structure.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012304 
PMID: 24580224  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012303. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Induced cooperative motions in a medium driven at the nanoscale: searching for an
optimum excitation period.

Teboul V(1), Accary JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Photonique d'Angers EA 4464, Université d'Angers, Physics
Department, 2 Boulevard Lavoisier, 49045 Angers, France.

Recent results have shown the appearance of induced cooperative motions called
dynamic heterogeneity during the isomerization of diluted azobenzene molecules in
a host glass-former. In this paper, we raise the issue of the coupling between
these "artificial" heterogeneities and the isomerization period. How do these
induced heterogeneities differ in the saturation regime and in the linear
response regime? Is there a maximum of the heterogeneous motion versus the
isomerization rate, and why? Is the heterogeneity evolution with the
isomerization rate connected with the diffusion or relaxation time evolution? We 
use out-of-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations to answer these questions. 
We find that the heterogeneity increases in the linear response regime for large 
isomerization periods and small perturbations. In contrast, the heterogeneity
decreases in the saturation regime, i.e., when the isomerization half-period
(τp/2) is smaller than the relaxation time of the material (τα). This result
enables a test of the effect of cooperative motions on the dynamics using the
chromophores as Maxwell demons that destroy or stimulate the cooperative motions.
Because the heterogeneities increase in the linear regime and then decrease in
the saturation regime, we find a maximum for τp/2≈τα. The induced excitation
concentration follows a power-law evolution versus the isomerization rate and
then saturates. As a consequence, the α relaxation time is related to the
excitation concentration with a power law, a result in qualitative agreement with
recent findings in constrained models. This result supports a common origin for
the heterogeneities with constrained models and a similar relation to the
excitation concentration.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012303 
PMID: 24580223  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012105. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Finite size induces crossover temperature in growing spin chains.

Sienkiewicz J(1), Suchecki K(1), Hołyst JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Physics, Center of Excellence for Complex Systems Research, Warsaw 
University of Technology, Koszykowa 75, PL-00-662 Warsaw, Poland.

Erratum in
    Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Sep;90(3):039905.

We introduce a growing one-dimensional quenched spin model that bases on
asymmetrical one-side Ising interactions in the presence of external field.
Numerical simulations and analytical calculations based on Markov chain theory
show that when the external field is smaller than the exchange coupling constant 
J there is a nonmonotonous dependence of the mean magnetization on the
temperature in a finite system. The crossover temperature Tc corresponding to the
maximal magnetization decays with system size, approximately as the inverse of
the Lambert W function. The observed phenomenon can be understood as an interplay
between the thermal fluctuations and the presence of the first cluster determined
by initial conditions. The effect exists also when spins are not quenched but
fully thermalized after the attachment to the chain. By performing tests on real 
data we conceive the model is in part suitable for a qualitative description of
online emotional discussions arranged in a chronological order, where a spin in
every node conveys emotional valence of a subsequent post.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012105 
PMID: 24580170 


20. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):012103. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Thermal properties of a particle confined to a parabolic quantum well in
two-dimensional space with conical disclination.

Mishra T(1), Sarkar TG(1), Bandyopadhyay JN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani
333031, India.

The thermal properties of a system, comprising of a spinless noninteracting
charged particle in the presence of a constant external magnetic field and
confined in a parabolic quantum well are studied. The focus has been on the
effects of a topological defect, of the form of conical disclination, with regard
to the thermodynamic properties of the system. We have obtained the modifications
to the traditional Landau-Fock-Darwin spectrum in the presence of conical
disclination. The effect of the conical kink on the degeneracy structure of the
energy levels is investigated. The canonical formalism is used to compute various
thermodynamic variables. The study shows an interplay between magnetic field,
temperature, and the degree of conicity by setting two scales for temperature
corresponding to the frequency of the confining potential and the cyclotron
frequency of external magnetic field. The kink parameter is found to affect the
quantitative behavior of the thermodynamic quantities. It plays a crucial role in
the competition between the external magnetic field and temperature in fixing the
values of the thermal response functions. This study provides an important
motivation for studying similar systems, however with nontrivial interactions in 
the presence of topological defects.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.012103 
PMID: 24580168 


21. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):011201. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Dark- and bright-rogue-wave solutions for media with long-wave-short-wave
resonance.

Chen S(1), Grelu P(2), Soto-Crespo JM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Southeast University, Nanjing 211189, China.
(2)Laboratoire Interdisciplinaire Carnot de Bourgogne, UMR No. 6303 associée au
CNRS, Université de Bourgogne, 9 avenue A. Savary, BP 47870, Dijon Cedex 21078,
France.
(3)Instituto de Óptica, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Serrano 
121, Madrid 28006, Spain.

Exact explicit rogue-wave solutions of intricate structures are presented for the
long-wave-short-wave resonance equation. These vector parametric solutions
feature coupled dark- and bright-field counterparts of the Peregrine soliton.
Numerical simulations show the robustness of dark and bright rogue waves in spite
of the onset of modulational instability. Dark fields originate from the complex 
interplay between anomalous dispersion and the nonlinearity driven by the coupled
long wave. This unusual mechanism, not available in scalar nonlinear wave
equation models, can provide a route to the experimental realization of dark
rogue waves in, for instance, negative index media or with capillary-gravity
waves.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.011201 
PMID: 24580164 


22. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Jan;89(1):010501. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Magnetic-field-induced suppression of the amorphous blue phase.

Challa PK(1), Sprunt SN(1), Jákli A(2), Gleeson JT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Kent State University, Kent, Ohio 44242, USA.
(2)Liquid Crystal Institute and Chemical Physics Interdisciplinary Program, Kent 
State University, Kent, Ohio 44242, USA.

We present magneto-optical measurements on two liquid crystals that exhibit a
wide temperature-range amorphous blue phase (BPIII). Magnetic fields up to 25 T
are found to suppress the onset of BPIII in both materials by almost 1 °C. This
effect appears to increase nonlinearly with the field strength. The effect of
high fields on established BPIIIs is also reported, in which we find significant 
hysteresis and very slow dynamics. Possible explanations of these results are
discussed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.89.010501 
PMID: 24580157 


23. Med Mycol. 2014 Apr;52(3):285-92. doi: 10.1093/mmy/myt010. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Trichophyton onychocola sp. nov. isolated from human nail.

Hubka V(1), Cmokova A, Skorepova M, Mikula P, Kolarik M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Botany, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague.

A previously undescribed Trichophyton species was isolated from the nail of a
33-year-old man with a history of probable distal lateral subungual onychomycosis
(without confirmation by mycological examination). The infection occurred for the
first time five years earlier (in 2006) and affected the right great toenail,
with complete clinical remission after treatment with ciclopirox olamine. This
undescribed species was isolated during probable relapse in 2011, but its
etiological significance was not confirmed, that is, direct microscopy was
negative and additional clinical samples were not collected. The species is
probably geophilic based on phylogenetic analysis (internal transcribed spacer
[ITS] rDNA) and is most closely related to the anamorphic T. thuringiense,
homothallic Arthroderma ciferrii (anamorph T. georgiae), and heterothallic A.
melis. The new species is characterized by yellowish colonies, red reverse on
several media, positive urease test, negative hair-perforation test, absence of
growth at 34°C, absence of macroconidia, formation of one-celled clavate
microconidia, and spiral hyphae. The species grows well on sterilized human hairs
placed on agar medium without any additional nutrients and forms
gymnothecium-like structures covered by peridial hyphae. The combination of
unique micro- and macromorphological features and physiological and sequence data
from four unlinked loci (ITS, benA, RPB2, and act1 gene) justified the proposal
of a new species T. onychocola sp. nov.

DOI: 10.1093/mmy/myt010 
PMID: 24577005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Magn Reson Imaging. 2014 May;32(4):397-401. doi: 10.1016/j.mri.2013.12.019. Epub 
2014 Jan 7.

A comparison of individual and population-derived vascular input functions for
quantitative DCE-MRI in rats.

Hormuth DA 2nd(1), Skinner JT(2), Does MD(3), Yankeelov TE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;
Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
(2)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;
Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN, USA.
(3)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;
Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Electrical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA.
(4)Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;
Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University, 
Nashville, TN, USA; Department of Physics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, 
USA; Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.
Electronic address: Thomas.yankeelov@vanderbilt.edu.

Dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) can quantitatively
and qualitatively assess physiological characteristics of tissue. Quantitative
DCE-MRI requires an estimate of the time rate of change of the concentration of
the contrast agent in the blood plasma, the vascular input function (VIF).
Measuring the VIF in small animals is notoriously difficult as it requires high
temporal resolution images limiting the achievable number of slices,
field-of-view, spatial resolution, and signal-to-noise. Alternatively, a
population-averaged VIF could be used to mitigate the acquisition demands in
studies aimed to investigate, for example, tumor vascular characteristics. Thus, 
the overall goal of this manuscript is to determine how the kinetic parameters
estimated by a population based VIF differ from those estimated by an individual 
VIF. Eight rats bearing gliomas were imaged before, during, and after an
injection of Gd-DTPA. K(trans), ve, and vp were extracted from signal-time curves
of tumor tissue using both individual and population-averaged VIFs. Extended
model voxel estimates of K(trans) and ve in all animals had concordance
correlation coefficients (CCC) ranging from 0.69 to 0.98 and Pearson correlation 
coefficients (PCC) ranging from 0.70 to 0.99. Additionally, standard model
estimates resulted in CCCs ranging from 0.81 to 0.99 and PCCs ranging from 0.98
to 1.00, supporting the use of a population based VIF if an individual VIF is not
available.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mri.2013.12.019 
PMCID: PMC3965603
PMID: 24556502  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Forensic Sci Int. 2014 Mar;236:90-8. doi: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.12.030. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Can soil testate amoebae be used for estimating the time since death? A field
experiment in a deciduous forest.

Szelecz I(1), Fournier B(2), Seppey C(2), Amendt J(3), Mitchell E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Soil Biology, University of Neuchâtel, Rue Emile-Argand 11, 2000
Neuchâtel, Switzerland; Institute of Forensic Medicine, Goethe-University, 60596 
Frankfurt/Main, Germany. Electronic address: ildiko.szelecz@unine.ch.
(2)Laboratory of Soil Biology, University of Neuchâtel, Rue Emile-Argand 11, 2000
Neuchâtel, Switzerland.
(3)Institute of Forensic Medicine, Goethe-University, 60596 Frankfurt/Main,
Germany.

Estimation of the post-mortem interval (PMI, the time interval between death and 
recovery of a body) can be crucial in solving criminal cases. Today minimum PMI
calculations rely mainly on medical and entomological evidence. However, beyond
4-6 weeks even entomological methods become less accurate. Thus additional tools 
are needed. Cadaveric fluids released by decomposing cadavers modify the soil
environment and thus impact soil organisms, which may thus be used to estimate
the PMI. Although the response of bacteria or fungi to the presence of a corpse
has been studied, to the best of our knowledge nothing is known about other soil 
organisms. Testate amoebae, a group of shelled protozoa, are sensitive
bioindicators of soil physico-chemical and micro-climatic conditions and are
therefore good potential PMI indicators. We investigated the response of testate 
amoebae to three decomposing pig cadavers, and compared the pattern to two
controls each, bare soils and fake cadavers, in a beach-oak forest near
Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Forest litter samples collected in the three treatments
over 10 months were analysed by microscopy. The pig treatment significantly
impacted the testate amoeba community: after 22 and 33 days no living amoeba
remained underneath the pig cadavers. Communities subsequently recovered but 10
months after the beginning of the experiment recovery was not complete. The fake 
cadavers also influenced the testate amoeba communities by altering the soil
microclimate during a dry hot period, but less than the cadavers. These results
confirm the sensitivity of soil testate amoebae to micro-climatic conditions and 
show that they respond fast to the presence of cadavers - and that this effect
although decreasing over time lasts for months, possibly several years. This
study therefore confirms that soil protozoa could potentially be useful as
forensic indicators, especially in cases with a longer PMI.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.forsciint.2013.12.030 
PMID: 24529779  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Phys Chem Lett. 2014 Feb 6;5(3):404-407. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Distinguishing Electronic and Vibronic Coherence in 2D Spectra by Their
Temperature Dependence.

Perlík V(1), Lincoln C(2), Sanda F(1), Hauer J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, Charles University ,
Ke Karlovu 5, Prague 121 16, Czech Republic.
(2)Photonics Institute, Vienna University of Technology , Gusshausstrasse 27,
1040 Vienna, Austria.

Long-lived oscillations in 2D spectra of chlorophylls are at the heart of an
ongoing debate. Their physical origin is either a multipigment effect, such as
excitonic coherence, or localized vibrations. We show how relative phase
differences of diagonal- and cross-peak oscillations can distinguish between
electronic and vibrational (vibronic) effects. While direct discrimination
between the two scenarios is obscured when peaks overlap, their sensitivity to
temperature provides a stronger argument. We show that vibrational (vibronic)
oscillations change relative phase with temperature, while electronic
oscillations are only weakly dependent. This highlights that studies of relative 
phase difference as a function of temperature provide a clear and easily
accessible method to distinguish between vibrational and electronic coherences.

DOI: 10.1021/jz402468c 
PMCID: PMC3917822
PMID: 24527180 


27. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 6;2014:485807. doi: 10.1155/2014/485807.
eCollection 2014.

Study on electrohydrodynamic Rayleigh-Taylor instability with heat and mass
transfer.

Awasthi MK(1), Srivastava VK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, College of Engineering, University of Petroleum and
Energy Studies, Dehradun 248007, India.
(2)ISRO Telemetry, Tracking and Command Network (ISTRAC), Bangalore 560058,
India.

The linear analysis of Rayleigh-Taylor instability of the interface between two
viscous and dielectric fluids in the presence of a tangential electric field has 
been carried out when there is heat and mass transfer across the interface. In
our earlier work, the viscous potential flow analysis of Rayleigh-Taylor
instability in presence of tangential electric field was studied. Here, we use
another irrotational theory in which the discontinuities in the irrotational
tangential velocity and shear stress are eliminated in the global energy balance.
Stability criterion is given by critical value of applied electric field as well 
as critical wave number. Various graphs have been drawn to show the effect of
various physical parameters such as electric field, heat transfer coefficient,
and vapour fraction on the stability of the system. It has been observed that
heat transfer and electric field both have stabilizing effect on the stability of
the system.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/485807 
PMCID: PMC3914451
PMID: 24526897  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Cryst Growth Des. 2014 Feb 5;14(2):442-449. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

The Epitaxial Growth of Self-Assembled Ternaphthalene Fibers on Muscovite Mica.

Simbrunner C(1), Schwabegger G(1), Resel R(2), Dingemans T(3), Sitter H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Semiconductor and Solid State Physics, Johannes Kepler University
, Altenbergerstrasse 69, A-4040 Linz, Austria.
(2)Institute of Solid State Physics, Graz University of Technology , Petersgasse 
16, A-8010 Graz, Austria.
(3)Faculty of Aerospace Engineering, Delft University of Technology , 2629 HS
Delft, The Netherlands.

The morphology and structure of 2,2':6',2″-ternaphthalene (NNN) deposited on
muscovite mica(001) substrates was investigated by scanning force microscopy
(SFM) and specular X-ray diffraction measurements. Consistently, both methods
reveal the coexistence of needle-like structures with a {111} contact plane and
{001} orientated island-like crystallites, which are built up by almost upright
standing NNN molecules. Both orientations are characterized by a well-defined
azimuthal alignment relative to the substrate surface, which is analyzed by X-ray
diffraction pole figure (XRD-PF) measurements. Based on XRD-PF and SFM analysis, 
the azimuthal alignment of {001} orientated crystallites is explained by
ledge-directed epitaxy along the fibers' sidewalls. These fibers are found to
orient along two dominant directions, which is verified and explained by a
doubling of the energetically preferred molecular adsorption site by mirror
symmetry of the substrate surface. The experimental findings are confirmed by
force-field simulations and are discussed based on a recently reported growth
model.

DOI: 10.1021/cg400912t 
PMCID: PMC3919176
PMID: 24526866 


29. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 6;2014:534140. doi: 10.1155/2014/534140.
eCollection 2014.

Origins and evolution of WUSCHEL-related homeobox protein family in plant
kingdom.

Lian G(1), Ding Z(2), Wang Q(3), Zhang D(1), Xu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China ; Department of Physics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai 200240, China ; Institutes of Biomedical Sciences, Fudan University,
Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Department of Physics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.

WUSCHEL-related homeobox (WOX) is a large group of transcription factors
specifically found in plants. WOX members contain the conserved homeodomain
essential for plant development by regulating cell division and differentiation. 
However, the evolutionary relationship of WOX members in plant kingdom remains to
be elucidated. In this study, we searched 350 WOX members from 50 species in
plant kingdom. Linkage analysis of WOX protein sequences demonstrated that amino 
acid residues 141-145 and 153-160 located in the homeodomain are possibly
associated with the function of WOXs during the evolution. These 350 members were
grouped into 3 clades: the first clade represents the conservative WOXs from the 
lower plant algae to higher plants; the second clade has the members from
vascular plant species; the third clade has the members only from spermatophyte
species. Furthermore, among the members of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa,
we observed ubiquitous expression of genes in the first clade and the diversified
expression pattern of WOX genes in distinct organs in the second clade and the
third clade. This work provides insight into the origin and evolutionary process 
of WOXs, facilitating their functional investigations in the future.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/534140 
PMCID: PMC3913392
PMID: 24511289  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 5;2014:508073. doi: 10.1155/2014/508073.
eCollection 2014.

Prediction of building limestone physical and mechanical properties by means of
ultrasonic P-wave velocity.

Concu G(1), De Nicolo B(1), Valdes M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering and Architecture, University
of Cagliari, Via Marengo 2, 09123 Cagliari, Italy.

The aim of this study was to evaluate ultrasonic P-wave velocity as a feature for
predicting some physical and mechanical properties that describe the behavior of 
local building limestone. To this end, both ultrasonic testing and compressive
tests were carried out on several limestone specimens and statistical correlation
between ultrasonic velocity and density, compressive strength, and modulus of
elasticity was studied. The effectiveness of ultrasonic velocity was evaluated by
regression, with the aim of observing the coefficient of determination r(2)
between ultrasonic velocity and the aforementioned parameters, and the
mathematical expressions of the correlations were found and discussed. The strong
relations that were established between ultrasonic velocity and limestone
properties indicate that these parameters can be reasonably estimated by means of
this nondestructive parameter. This may be of great value in a preliminary phase 
of the diagnosis and inspection of stone masonry conditions, especially when the 
possibility of sampling material cores is reduced.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/508073 
PMCID: PMC3913365
PMID: 24511286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 5;2014:420408. doi: 10.1155/2014/420408.
eCollection 2014.

Weighted multilinear hardy operators on Herz type spaces.

Gong S(1), Fu Z(2), Ma B(3).

Author information: 
(1)College of Mathematics and Econometrics, Hunan University, Changsha, Hunan
410082, China.
(2)Department of Mathematics, Linyi University, Linyi, Shandong 276005, China.
(3)College of Mathematics Physics and Information Engineering, Jiaxing
University, Jiaxing, Zhejiang 314001, China.

This paper focuses on the bounds of weighted multilinear Hardy operators on the
product Herz spaces and the product Morrey-Herz spaces, respectively. We present 
a sufficient condition on the weight function that guarantees weighted
multilinear Hardy operators to be bounded on the product Herz spaces. And the
condition is necessary under certain assumptions. Finally, we extend the obtained
results to the product Morrey-Herz spaces.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/420408 
PMCID: PMC3913363
PMID: 24511285  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):017402. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Measurement of a saturated emission of optical radiation from gold nanoparticles:
application to an ultrahigh resolution microscope.

Chu SW(1), Su TY(2), Oketani R(3), Huang YT(2), Wu HY(2), Yonemaru Y(3), Yamanaka
M(3), Lee H(2), Zhuo GY(2), Lee MY(2), Kawata S(3), Fujita K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan,
Republic of China and Molecular Imaging Center, National Taiwan University,
Taipei 10617, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(2)Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan,
Republic of China.
(3)Department of Applied Physics, Osaka University, 565-0871 Osaka, Japan.

We show that scattering from a single gold nanoparticle is saturable for the
first time. Wavelength-dependent study reveals that the saturation behavior is
governed by depletion of surface plasmon resonance, not the thermal effect. We
observed interesting flattening of the point spread function of scattering from a
single nanoparticle due to saturation. By extracting the saturated part of
scattering via temporal modulation, we achieve λ/8 point spread function in
far-field imaging with unambiguous separation of adjacent particles.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.017402 
PMID: 24483931  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):017401. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

All-semiconductor negative-index plasmonic absorbers.

Law S(1), Roberts C(2), Kilpatrick T(1), Yu L(1), Ribaudo T(3), Shaner EA(3),
Podolskiy V(2), Wasserman D(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Illinois Urbana Champaign, Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, Micro and Nanotechnology Lab, Urbana, Illinois 61801, USA.
(2)Department of Physics and Applied Physics, University of Massachusetts Lowell,
Lowell, Massachusetts 01854, USA.
(3)Sandia National Labs, P.O. Box 5800, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87185, USA.

We demonstrate epitaxially grown all-semiconductor thin-film midinfrared
plasmonic absorbers and show that absorption in these structures is linked to the
excitation of highly confined negative-index surface plasmon polaritons. Strong
(>98%) absorption is experimentally observed, and the spectral position and
intensity of the absorption resonances are studied by reflection and transmission
spectroscopy. Numerical models as well as an analytical description of the
excited guided modes in our structures are presented, showing agreement with
experiment. The structures investigated demonstrate a wavelength-flexible,
all-semiconductor, plasmonic architecture with potential for both sensing
applications and enhanced interaction of midinfrared radiation with integrated
semiconductor optoelectronic elements.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.017401 
PMID: 24483930 


34. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):017202. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Quantum tunneling of magnetization in a metal-organic framework.

Tian Y(1), Wang W(1), Chai Y(1), Cong J(1), Shen S(1), Yan L(1), Wang S(1), Han
X(1), Sun Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Magnetism and Beijing National Laboratory for
Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, People's Republic of China.

Resonant quantum tunneling of magnetization has been observed in a hybrid
metal-organic framework where an intrinsic magnetic phase separation leads to the
coexistence of long-range canted antiferromagnetic order and isolated single-ion 
quantum magnets. This unusual magnetic phenomenon is well interpreted based on a 
selective long-distance superexchange model in which the exchange interaction
between transition metal ions through an organic linker depends on the position
of hydrogen bonds. Our work not only extends the resonant quantum tunneling of
magnetization to a new class of materials but also evokes the important role of
hydrogen bonding in organic magnetism.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.017202 
PMID: 24483924 


35. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):016802. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Dual topological character of chalcogenides: theory for Bi2Te3.

Rauch T(1), Flieger M(1), Henk J(1), Mertig I(2), Ernst A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 06099 Halle,
Germany.
(2)Department of Physics, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 06099 Halle,
Germany and Max Planck Institute of Microstructure Physics, 06120 Halle, Germany.
(3)Max Planck Institute of Microstructure Physics, 06120 Halle, Germany.

A topological insulator is realized via band inversions driven by the spin-orbit 
interaction. In the case of Z2 topological phases, the number of band inversions 
is odd and time-reversal invariance is a further unalterable ingredient. For
topological crystalline insulators, the number of band inversions may be even but
mirror symmetry is required. Here, we prove that the chalcogenide Bi2Te3 is a
dual topological insulator: it is simultaneously in a Z2 topological phase with
Z2 invariants (ν0;ν1ν2ν3) = (1;0 0 0) and in a topological crystalline phase with
mirror Chern number -1. In our theoretical investigation we show in addition that
the Z2 phase can be broken by magnetism while keeping the topological crystalline
phase. As a consequence, the Dirac state at the (111) surface is shifted off the 
time-reversal invariant momentum Γ; being protected by mirror symmetry, there is 
no band gap opening. Our observations provide theoretical groundwork for opening 
the research on magnetic control of topological phases in quantum devices.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.016802 
PMID: 24483917 


36. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):016801. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Enigmatic 4/11 state: a prototype for unconventional fractional quantum Hall
effect.

Mukherjee S(1), Mandal SS(1), Wu YH(2), Wójs A(3), Jain JK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Theoretical Physics, Indian Association for the Cultivation of
Science, Jadavpur, Kolkata 700 032, India.
(2)Department of Physics, 104 Davey Laboratory, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.
(3)Institute of Physics, Wroclaw University of Technology, 50-370 Wroclaw,
Poland.

The origin of the fractional quantum Hall effect (FQHE) at 4/11 and 5/13 has
remained controversial. We make a compelling case that the FQHE is possible here 
for fully spin polarized composite fermions, but with an unconventional
underlying physics. Thanks to a rather unusual interaction between composite
fermions, the FQHE here results from the suppression of pairs with a relative
angular momentum of three rather than one, confirming the exotic mechanism
proposed by Wójs, Yi, and Quinn [Phys. Rev. B 69, 205322 (2004)]. We predict that
the 4/11 state reported a decade ago by Pan et al. [Phys. Rev. Lett. 90, 016801
(2003)] is a conventional partially spin polarized FQHE of composite fermions,
and we estimate the Zeeman energy where a phase transition into the
unconventional fully spin polarized state will occur.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.016801 
PMID: 24483916 


37. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):016403. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Topological crystalline Kondo insulator in mixed valence ytterbium borides.

Weng H(1), Zhao J(2), Wang Z(2), Fang Z(1), Dai X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, and Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China and Collaborative
Innovation Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing 100190, China.
(2)Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, and Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100190, China.

The electronic structures of two mixed valence insulators YbB6 and YbB12 are
studied by using the local density approximation supplemented with the Gutzwiller
method and dynamic mean field theory. YbB6 is found to be a moderately correlated
Z2 topological insulator, similar to SmB6 but having much larger bulk band gap.
Notably, YbB12 is revealed to be in a new novel quantum state, strongly
correlated topological crystalline Kondo insulator, which is characterized by its
nonzero mirror Chern number. The surface calculations find an odd (three) and an 
even (four) number of Dirac cones for YbB6 and YbB12, respectively.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.016403 
PMID: 24483913 


38. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):016402. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Density of states scaling at the semimetal to metal transition in three
dimensional topological insulators.

Kobayashi K(1), Ohtsuki T(1), Imura K(2), Herbut IF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Sophia University, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 102-8554, Japan.
(2)Department of Quantum Matter, AdSM, Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima,
739-8530, Japan and Max-Planck-Institut für Physik komplexer Systeme, Nöthnitzer 
Straße 38, 01187 Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Physics, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British Columbia, V5A
1S6, Canada and Max-Planck-Institut für Physik komplexer Systeme, Nöthnitzer
Straße 38, 01187 Dresden, Germany.

The quantum phase transition between the three dimensional Dirac semimetal and
the diffusive metal can be induced by increasing disorder. Taking the system of a
disordered Z2 topological insulator as an important example, we compute the
single particle density of states by the kernel polynomial method. We focus on
three regions: the Dirac semimetal at the phase boundary between two
topologically distinct phases, the tricritical point of the two topological
insulator phases and the diffusive metal, and the diffusive metal lying at strong
disorder. The density of states obeys a novel single parameter scaling,
collapsing onto two branches of a universal scaling function, which correspond to
the Dirac semimetal and the diffusive metal. The diverging length scale critical 
exponent ν and the dynamical critical exponent z are estimated, and found to
differ significantly from those for the conventional Anderson transition.
Critical behavior of experimentally observable quantities near and at the
tricritical point is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.016402 
PMID: 24483912 


39. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):016401. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Light-matter decoupling in the deep strong coupling regime: the breakdown of the 
Purcell effect.

De Liberato S(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17
1BJ, United Kingdom.

Improvements in both the photonic confinement and the emitter design have led to 
a steady increase in the strength of the light-matter coupling in cavity quantum 
electrodynamics experiments. This has allowed us to access interaction-dominated 
regimes in which the state of the system can only be described in terms of mixed 
light-matter excitations. Here we show that, when the coupling between light and 
matter becomes strong enough, this picture breaks down, and light and matter
degrees of freedom totally decouple. A striking consequence of such a
counterintuitive phenomenon is that the Purcell effect is reversed and the
spontaneous emission rate, usually thought to increase with the light-matter
coupling strength, plummets instead for large enough couplings.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.016401 
PMID: 24483911 


40. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):015701. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Mixed-order phase transition in a one-dimensional model.

Bar A(1), Mukamel D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics of Complex Systems, Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot 7610001, Israel.

We introduce and analyze an exactly soluble one-dimensional Ising model with long
range interactions that exhibits a mixed-order transition, namely a phase
transition in which the order parameter is discontinuous as in first order
transitions while the correlation length diverges as in second order transitions.
Such transitions are known to appear in a diverse classes of models that are
seemingly unrelated. The model we present serves as a link between two classes of
models that exhibit a mixed-order transition in one dimension, namely, spin
models with a coupling constant that decays as the inverse distance squared and
models of depinning transitions, thus making a step towards a unifying framework.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.015701 
PMID: 24483909 


41. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):015501. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Dynamic similarity of oscillatory flows induced by nanomechanical resonators.

Bullard EC(1), Li J(2), Lilley CR(3), Mulvaney P(2), Roukes ML(1), Sader JE(4).

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Nanoscience Institute and Departments of Physics, Applied Physics, and
Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125,
USA.
(2)School of Chemistry and Bio21 Institute, The University of Melbourne, Victoria
3010, Australia.
(3)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Melbourne,
Victoria 3010, Australia.
(4)Kavli Nanoscience Institute and Departments of Physics, Applied Physics, and
Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125,
USA and Department of Mathematics and Statistics, The University of Melbourne,
Victoria 3010, Australia.

Rarefied gas flows generated by resonating nanomechanical structures pose a
significant challenge to theoretical analysis and physical interpretation. The
inherent noncontinuum nature of such flows obviates the use of classical
theories, such as the Navier-Stokes equations, requiring more sophisticated
physical treatments for their characterization. In this Letter, we present a
universal dynamic similarity theorem: The quality factor of a nanoscale
mechanical resonator at gas pressure P0 is α times that of a scaled-up microscale
resonator at a reduced pressure α P0, where α is the ratio of nanoscale and
microscale resonator sizes. This holds rigorously for any nanomechanical
structure at all degrees of rarefaction, from continuum through to transition and
free molecular flows. The theorem is demonstrated for a series of nanomechanical 
cantilever devices of different size, for which precise universal behavior is
observed. This result is of significance for research aimed at probing the
fundamental nature of rarefied gas flows and gas-structure interactions at
nanometer length scales.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.015501 
PMID: 24483908  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):015302. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Quantum flutter: signatures and robustness.

Knap M(1), Mathy CJ(2), Ganahl M(3), Zvonarev MB(4), Demler E(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
and ITAMP, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138, USA and Institute of Theoretical and Computational Physics, Graz
University of Technology, 8010 Graz, Austria.
(2)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA
and ITAMP, Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02138, USA.
(3)Institute of Theoretical and Computational Physics, Graz University of
Technology, 8010 Graz, Austria.
(4)Univ Paris-Sud, Laboratoire LPTMS, UMR8626, Orsay, F-91405, France and CNRS,
Orsay, F-91405, France.
(5)Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA.

We investigate the motion of an impurity particle injected with finite velocity
into an interacting one-dimensional quantum gas. Using large-scale numerical
simulations based on matrix product states, we observe and quantitatively analyze
long-lived oscillations of the impurity momentum around a nonzero saturation
value, called quantum flutter. We show that the quantum flutter frequency is
equal to the energy difference between two branches of collective excitations of 
the model. We propose an explanation of the finite saturation momentum of the
impurity based on the properties of the edge of the excitation spectrum. Our
results indicate that quantum flutter exists away from integrability and provide 
parameter regions in which it could be observed in experiments with ultracold
atoms using currently available technology.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.015302 
PMID: 24483907 


43. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):015301. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Ferromagnetism of a repulsive atomic Fermi gas in an optical lattice: a quantum
Monte Carlo study.

Pilati S(1), Zintchenko I(2), Troyer M(2).

Author information: 
(1)The Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics, 34151 Trieste,
Italy.
(2)Theoretische Physik, ETH Zurich, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland.

Using continuous-space quantum Monte Carlo methods, we investigate the
zero-temperature ferromagnetic behavior of a two-component repulsive Fermi gas
under the influence of periodic potentials that describe the effect of a
simple-cubic optical lattice. Simulations are performed with balanced and with
imbalanced components, including the case of a single impurity immersed in a
polarized Fermi sea (repulsive polaron). For an intermediate density below half
filling, we locate the transitions between the paramagnetic, and the partially
and fully ferromagnetic phases. As the intensity of the optical lattice
increases, the ferromagnetic instability takes place at weaker interactions,
indicating a possible route to observe ferromagnetism in experiments performed
with ultracold atoms. We compare our findings with previous predictions based on 
the standard computational method used in material science, namely density
functional theory, and with results based on tight-binding models.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.015301 
PMID: 24483906 


44. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):015001. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Quantum radiation reaction in laser-electron-beam collisions.

Blackburn TG(1), Ridgers CP(2), Kirk JG(3), Bell AR(4).

Author information: 
(1)Clarendon Laboratory, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Physics, University of York, York YO10 5DD, United Kingdom and
Central Laser Facility, STFC Rutherford-Appleton Laboratory, Chilton, Didcot,
Oxfordshire OX11 0QX, United Kingdom.
(3)Max-Planck-Institut für Kernphysik, Postfach 10 39 80, 69029 Heidelberg,
Germany.
(4)Clarendon Laboratory, University of Oxford, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PU, United
Kingdom and Central Laser Facility, STFC Rutherford-Appleton Laboratory, Chilton,
Didcot, Oxfordshire OX11 0QX, United Kingdom.

It is possible using current high-intensity laser facilities to reach the quantum
radiation reaction regime for energetic electrons. An experiment using a
wakefield accelerator to drive GeV electrons into a counterpropagating laser
pulse would demonstrate the increase in the yield of high-energy photons caused
by the stochastic nature of quantum synchrotron emission: we show that a beam of 
10(9) 1 GeV electrons colliding with a 30 fs laser pulse of intensity
10(22)  W cm(-2) will emit 6300 photons with energy greater than 700 MeV, 60× the
number predicted by classical theory.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.015001 
PMID: 24483905 


45. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):014102. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Information gain in tomography--a quantum signature of chaos.

Madhok V(1), Riofrío CA(2), Ghose S(3), Deutsch IH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Quantum Information and Control, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA and Department of Physics and Computer
Science, Wilfrid Laurier University, Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3C5, Canada.
(2)Center for Quantum Information and Control, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA and Dahlem Center for Complex Quantum
Systems, Freie Universität Berlin, 14195 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Physics and Computer Science, Wilfrid Laurier University,
Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3C5, Canada.
(4)Center for Quantum Information and Control, University of New Mexico,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA.

We find quantum signatures of chaos in various metrics of information gain in
quantum tomography. We employ a quantum state estimator based on weak collective 
measurements of an ensemble of identically prepared systems. The tomographic
measurement record consists of a sequence of expectation values of a Hermitian
operator that evolves under repeated application of the Floquet map of the
quantum kicked top. We find an increase in information gain and, hence, higher
fidelities in the reconstruction algorithm when the chaoticity parameter map
increases. The results are well predicted by random matrix theory.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.014102 
PMID: 24483900 


46. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):014101. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Phase synchronization of two anharmonic nanomechanical oscillators.

Matheny MH(1), Grau M(1), Villanueva LG(1), Karabalin RB(1), Cross MC(1), Roukes 
ML(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Nanoscience Institute and Departments of Physics, Applied Physics, and
Bioengineering, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, California 91125,
USA.

We investigate the synchronization of oscillators based on anharmonic
nanoelectromechanical resonators. Our experimental implementation allows
unprecedented observation and control of parameters governing the dynamics of
synchronization. We find close quantitative agreement between experimental data
and theory describing reactively coupled Duffing resonators with fully saturated 
feedback gain. In the synchronized state we demonstrate a significant reduction
in the phase noise of the oscillators, which is key for sensor and clock
applications. Our work establishes that oscillator networks constructed from
nanomechanical resonators form an ideal laboratory to study
synchronization--given their high-quality factors, small footprint, and ease of
cointegration with modern electronic signal processing technologies.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.014101 
PMID: 24483899  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):012301. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Elliptic flow splitting as a probe of the QCD phase structure at finite baryon
chemical potential.

Xu J(1), Song T(2), Ko CM(2), Li F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai
201800, China.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Cyclotron Institute, Texas A&M
University, College Station, Texas 77843, USA.

Using a partonic transport model based on the 3-flavor Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model
and a relativistic hadronic transport model to describe, respectively, the
evolution of the initial partonic and the final hadronic phase of heavy-ion
collisions at energies carried out in the beam-energy scan program of the BNL
Relativistic Heavy Ion collider, we study the effects of both the partonic and
hadronic mean-field potentials on the elliptic flow of particles relative to that
of their antiparticles. We find that to reproduce the measured relative elliptic 
flow differences between nucleons and antinucleons as well as between kaons and
antikaons requires a vector coupling constant as large as 0.5-1.1 times the
scalar coupling constant in the Nambu-Jona-Lasinio model. Implications of our
results in understanding the QCD phase structure at finite baryon chemical
potential are discussed.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.012301 
PMID: 24483890 


48. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):012002. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Quark-gluon plasma in an external magnetic field.

Levkova L(1), DeTar C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah 
84112, USA.

Using numerical simulations of lattice QCD we calculate the effect of an external
magnetic field on the equation of state of the quark-gluon plasma. The results
are obtained using a Taylor expansion of the pressure with respect to the
magnetic field for the first time. The coefficients of the expansion are computed
to second order in the magnetic field. Our setup for the external magnetic field 
avoids complications arising from toroidal boundary conditions, making a Taylor
series expansion straightforward. This study is exploratory and is meant to serve
as a proof of principle.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.012002 
PMID: 24483888 


49. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):011801. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Measurement of CP violation in the phase space of B± → K+ K- π± and B± → π+ π- π±
decays.

Aaij R, Adeva B, Adinolfi M, Adrover C, Affolder A, Ajaltouni Z, Albrecht J,
Alessio F, Alexander M, Ali S, Alkhazov G, Alvarez Cartelle P, Alves AA Jr, Amato
S, Amerio S, Amhis Y, Anderlini L, Anderson J, Andreassen R, Andrews JE, Appleby 
RB, Aquines Gutierrez O, Archilli F, Artamonov A, Artuso M, Aslanides E, Auriemma
G, Baalouch M, Bachmann S, Back JJ, Badalov A, Baesso C, Balagura V, Baldini W,
Barlow RJ, Barschel C, Barsuk S, Barter W, Bauer T, Bay A, Beddow J, Bedeschi F, 
Bediaga I, Belogurov S, Belous K, Belyaev I, Ben-Haim E, Bencivenni G, Benson S, 
Benton J, Berezhnoy A, Bernet R, Bettler MO, van Beuzekom M, Bien A, Bifani S,
Bird T, Bizzeti A, Bjørnstad PM, Blake T, Blanc F, Blouw J, Blusk S, Bocci V,
Bondar A, Bondar N, Bonivento W, Borghi S, Borgia A, Bowcock TJ, Bowen E, Bozzi
C, Brambach T, van den Brand J, Bressieux J, Brett D, Britsch M, Britton T, Brook
NH, Brown H, Bursche A, Busetto G, Buytaert J, Cadeddu S, Callot O, Calvi M,
Calvo Gomez M, Camboni A, Campana P, Campora Perez D, Carbone A, Carboni G,
Cardinale R, Cardini A, Carranza-Mejia H, Carson L, Carvalho Akiba K, Casse G,
Castillo Garcia L, Cattaneo M, Cauet Ch, Cenci R, Charles M, Charpentier P,
Cheung SF, Chiapolini N, Chrzaszcz M, Ciba K, Cid Vidal X, Ciezarek G, Clarke PE,
Clemencic M, Cliff HV, Closier J, Coca C, Coco V, Cogan J, Cogneras E, Collins P,
Comerma-Montells A, Contu A, Cook A, Coombes M, Coquereau S, Corti G, Couturier
B, Cowan GA, Craik DC, Cruz Torres M, Cunliffe S, Currie R, D'Ambrosio C, David
P, David PN, Davis A, De Bonis I, De Bruyn K, De Capua S, De Cian M, De Miranda
JM, De Paula L, De Silva W, De Simone P, Decamp D, Deckenhoff M, Del Buono L,
Déléage N, Derkach D, Deschamps O, Dettori F, Di Canto A, Dijkstra H, Dogaru M,
Donleavy S, Dordei F, Dosil Suárez A, Dossett D, Dovbnya A, Dupertuis F, Durante 
P, Dzhelyadin R, Dziurda A, Dzyuba A, Easo S, Egede U, Egorychev V, Eidelman S,
van Eijk D, Eisenhardt S, Eitschberger U, Ekelhof R, Eklund L, El Rifai I,
Elsasser Ch, Falabella A, Färber C, Farinelli C, Farry S, Ferguson D, Fernandez
Albor V, Ferreira Rodrigues F, Ferro-Luzzi M, Filippov S, Fiore M, Fitzpatrick C,
Fontana M, Fontanelli F, Forty R, Francisco O, Frank M, Frei C, Frosini M,
Furfaro E, Gallas Torreira A, Galli D, Gandelman M, Gandini P, Gao Y, Garofoli J,
Garosi P, Garra Tico J, Garrido L, Gaspar C, Gauld R, Gersabeck E, Gersabeck M,
Gershon T, Ghez P, Gibson V, Giubega L, Gligorov VV, Göbel C, Golubkov D,
Golutvin A, Gomes A, Gorbounov P, Gordon H, Grabalosa Gándara M, Graciani Diaz R,
Granado Cardoso LA, Graugés E, Graziani G, Grecu A, Greening E, Gregson S,
Griffith P, Grillo L, Grünberg O, Gui B, Gushchin E, Guz Y, Gys T, Hadjivasiliou 
C, Haefeli G, Haen C, Haines SC, Hall S, Hamilton B, Hampson T, Hansmann-Menzemer
S, Harnew N, Harnew ST, Harrison J, Hartmann T, He J, Head T, Heijne V, Hennessy 
K, Henrard P, Hernando Morata JA, van Herwijnen E, Heß M, Hicheur A, Hicks E,
Hill D, Hoballah M, Hombach C, Hulsbergen W, Hunt P, Huse T, Hussain N,
Hutchcroft D, Hynds D, Iakovenko V, Idzik M, Ilten P, Jacobsson R, Jaeger A, Jans
E, Jaton P, Jawahery A, Jing F, John M, Johnson D, Jones CR, Joram C, Jost B,
Kaballo M, Kandybei S, Kanso W, Karacson M, Karbach TM, Kenyon IR, Ketel T,
Khanji B, Kochebina O, Komarov I, Koopman RF, Koppenburg P, Korolev M, Kozlinskiy
A, Kravchuk L, Kreplin K, Kreps M, Krocker G, Krokovny P, Kruse F, Kucharczyk M, 
Kudryavtsev V, Kurek K, Kvaratskheliya T, La Thi VN, Lacarrere D, Lafferty G, Lai
A, Lambert D, Lambert RW, Lanciotti E, Lanfranchi G, Langenbruch C, Latham T,
Lazzeroni C, Le Gac R, van Leerdam J, Lees JP, Lefèvre R, Leflat A, Lefrançois J,
Leo S, Leroy O, Lesiak T, Leverington B, Li Y, Li Gioi L, Liles M, Lindner R,
Linn C, Liu B, Liu G, Lohn S, Longstaff I, Lopes JH, Lopez-March N, Lu H,
Lucchesi D, Luisier J, Luo H, Lupton O, Machefert F, Machikhiliyan IV, Maciuc F, 
Maev O, Malde S, Manca G, Mancinelli G, Maratas J, Marconi U, Marino P, Märki R, 
Marks J, Martellotti G, Martens A, Martín Sánchez A, Martinelli M, Martinez
Santos D, Martins Tostes D, Martynov A, Massafferri A, Matev R, Mathe Z,
Matteuzzi C, Maurice E, Mazurov A, McCarthy J, McNab A, McNulty R, McSkelly B,
Meadows B, Meier F, Meissner M, Merk M, Milanes DA, Minard MN, Molina Rodriguez
J, Monteil S, Moran D, Morawski P, Mordà A, Morello MJ, Mountain R, Mous I,
Muheim F, Müller K, Muresan R, Muryn B, Muster B, Naik P, Nakada T, Nandakumar R,
Nasteva I, Needham M, Neubert S, Neufeld N, Nguyen AD, Nguyen TD, Nguyen-Mau C,
Nicol M, Niess V, Niet R, Nikitin N, Nikodem T, Nomerotski A, Novoselov A,
Oblakowska-Mucha A, Obraztsov V, Oggero S, Ogilvy S, Okhrimenko O, Oldeman R,
Orlandea M, Otalora Goicochea JM, Owen P, Oyanguren A, Pal BK, Palano A, Palutan 
M, Panman J, Papanestis A, Pappagallo M, Parkes C, Parkinson CJ, Passaleva G,
Patel GD, Patel M, Patrick GN, Patrignani C, Pavel-Nicorescu C, Pazos Alvarez A, 
Pearce A, Pellegrino A, Penso G, Pepe Altarelli M, Perazzini S, Perez Trigo E,
Pérez-Calero Yzquierdo A, Perret P, Perrin-Terrin M, Pescatore L, Pesen E,
Pessina G, Petridis K, Petrolini A, Phan A, Picatoste Olloqui E, Pietrzyk B,
Pilař T, Pinci D, Playfer S, Plo Casasus M, Polci F, Polok G, Poluektov A,
Polycarpo E, Popov A, Popov D, Popovici B, Potterat C, Powell A, Prisciandaro J, 
Pritchard A, Prouve C, Pugatch V, Puig Navarro A, Punzi G, Qian W, Rachwal B,
Rademacker JH, Rakotomiaramanana B, Rangel MS, Raniuk I, Rauschmayr N, Raven G,
Redford S, Reichert S, Reid MM, dos Reis AC, Ricciardi S, Richards A, Rinnert K, 
Rives Molina V, Roa Romero DA, Robbe P, Roberts DA, Rodrigues AB, Rodrigues E,
Rodriguez Perez P, Roiser S, Romanovsky V, Romero Vidal A, Rotondo M, Rouvinet J,
Ruf T, Ruffini F, Ruiz H, Ruiz Valls P, Sabatino G, Saborido Silva JJ, Sagidova
N, Sail P, Saitta B, Salustino Guimaraes V, Sanmartin Sedes B, Santacesaria R,
Santamarina Rios C, Santovetti E, Sapunov M, Sarti A, Satriano C, Satta A, Savrie
M, Savrina D, Schiller M, Schindler H, Schlupp M, Schmelling M, Schmidt B,
Schneider O, Schopper A, Schune MH, Schwemmer R, Sciascia B, Sciubba A, Seco M,
Semennikov A, Senderowska K, Sepp I, Serra N, Serrano J, Seyfert P, Shapkin M,
Shapoval I, Shcheglov Y, Shears T, Shekhtman L, Shevchenko O, Shevchenko V,
Shires A, Silva Coutinho R, Sirendi M, Skidmore N, Skwarnicki T, Smith NA, Smith 
E, Smith E, Smith J, Smith M, Sokoloff MD, Soler FJ, Soomro F, Souza D, Souza De 
Paula B, Spaan B, Sparkes A, Spradlin P, Stagni F, Stahl S, Steinkamp O,
Stevenson S, Stoica S, Stone S, Storaci B, Straticiuc M, Straumann U, Subbiah VK,
Sun L, Sutcliffe W, Swientek S, Syropoulos V, Szczekowski M, Szczypka P, Szilard 
D, Szumlak T, T'Jampens S, Teklishyn M, Teodorescu E, Teubert F, Thomas C, Thomas
E, van Tilburg J, Tisserand V, Tobin M, Tolk S, Tonelli D, Topp-Joergensen S,
Torr N, Tournefier E, Tourneur S, Tran MT, Tresch M, Tsaregorodtsev A, Tsopelas
P, Tuning N, Ubeda Garcia M, Ukleja A, Ustyuzhanin A, Uwer U, Vagnoni V, Valenti 
G, Vallier A, Vazquez Gomez R, Vazquez Regueiro P, Vázquez Sierra C, Vecchi S,
Velthuis JJ, Veltri M, Veneziano G, Vesterinen M, Viaud B, Vieira D,
Vilasis-Cardona X, Vollhardt A, Volyanskyy D, Voong D, Vorobyev A, Vorobyev V,
Voß C, Voss H, Waldi R, Wallace C, Wallace R, Wandernoth S, Wang J, Ward DR,
Watson NK, Webber AD, Websdale D, Whitehead M, Wicht J, Wiechczynski J, Wiedner
D, Wiggers L, Wilkinson G, Williams MP, Williams M, Wilson FF, Wimberley J,
Wishahi J, Wislicki W, Witek M, Wormser G, Wotton SA, Wright S, Wu S, Wyllie K,
Xie Y, Xing Z, Yang Z, Yuan X, Yushchenko O, Zangoli M, Zavertyaev M, Zhang F,
Zhang L, Zhang WC, Zhang Y, Zhelezov A, Zhokhov A, Zhong L, Zvyagin A; (LHCb
Collaboration).

The charmless decays B± → K+ K- π± and B± → π+ π- π± are reconstructed in a data 
set of pp collisions with an integrated luminosity of 1.0  fb(-1) and
center-of-mass energy of 7 TeV, collected by LHCb in 2011. The inclusive charge
asymmetries of these modes are measured to be A(CP)(B± → K+ K- π±) =
-0.141±0.040  (stat)±0.018 (syst)±0.007(J/ψ K±) and A(CP)(B± → π+ π- π±) =
0.117±0.021 (stat)±0.009 (syst)±0.007(J/ψ K±), where the third uncertainty is due
to the CP asymmetry of the B± → J/ψK± reference mode. In addition to the
inclusive CP asymmetries, larger asymmetries are observed in localized regions of
phase space.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.011801 
PMID: 24483886 


50. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):011601. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Entanglement tsunami: universal scaling in holographic thermalization.

Liu H(1), Suh SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Theoretical Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

We consider the time evolution of entanglement entropy after a global quench in a
strongly coupled holographic system, whose subsequent equilibration is described 
in the gravity dual by the gravitational collapse of a thin shell of matter
resulting in a black hole. In the limit of large regions of entanglement, the
evolution of entanglement entropy is controlled by the geometry around and inside
the event horizon of the black hole, resulting in regimes of
pre-local-equilibration quadratic growth (in time), post-local-equilibration
linear growth, a late-time regime in which the evolution does not carry memory of
the size and shape of the entangled region, and a saturation regime with critical
behavior resembling those in continuous phase transitions. Collectively, these
regimes suggest a picture of entanglement growth in which an "entanglement
tsunami" carries entanglement inward from the boundary. We also make a conjecture
on the maximal rate of entanglement growth in relativistic systems.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.011601 
PMID: 24483884 


51. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):011303. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Universal attractor for inflation at strong coupling.

Kallosh R(1), Linde A(1), Roest D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and SITP, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA.
(2)Centre for Theoretical Physics, University of Groningen, Nijenborgh 4, 9747 AG
Groningen, Netherlands.

We introduce a novel nonminimal coupling between gravity and the inflaton sector.
Remarkably, for large values of this coupling all models asymptote to a universal
attractor. This behavior is independent of the original scalar potential and
generalizes the attractor in the φ4 theory with nonminimal coupling to gravity.
The attractor is located in the "sweet spot" of parameter values that are
preferred by Planck's recent results.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.011303 
PMID: 24483883 


52. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):011302. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Multifield inflation after Planck: the case for nonminimal couplings.

Kaiser DI(1), Sfakianakis EI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Theoretical Physics, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Multifield models of inflation with nonminimal couplings are in excellent
agreement with the recent results from Planck. Across a broad range of couplings 
and initial conditions, such models evolve along an effectively single-field
attractor solution and predict values of the primordial spectral index and its
running, the tensor-to-scalar ratio, and non-Gaussianities squarely in the
observationally most-favored region. Such models can also amplify isocurvature
perturbations, which could account for the low power recently observed in the
cosmic microwave background power spectrum at low multipoles. Future measurements
of primordial isocurvature perturbations could distinguish between the currently 
viable possibilities.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.011302 
PMID: 24483882 


53. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):010402. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Coarsening measurement references and the quantum-to-classical transition.

Jeong H(1), Lim Y(1), Kim MS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Macroscopic Quantum Control, Department of Physics and Astronomy,
Seoul National University, Seoul 151-742, Korea.
(2)QOLS, Blackett Laboratory, Imperial College London, London SW7 2BW, United
Kingdom.

We investigate the role of inefficiency in quantum measurements in the
quantum-to-classical transition, and consistently observe the
quantum-to-classical transition by coarsening the references of the measurements 
(e.g., when and where to measure). Our result suggests that the definition of
measurement precision in quantum theory should include the degree of the
observer's ability to precisely control the measurement references.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.010402 
PMID: 24483872 


54. Phys Rev Lett. 2014 Jan 10;112(1):010401. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Theory of genuine tripartite nonlocality of Gaussian states.

Adesso G(1), Piano S(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Mathematical Sciences, The University of Nottingham, University
Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, United Kingdom.
(2)Midlands Ultracold Atom Research Centre, School of Physics and Astronomy, The 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, United Kingdom.

We investigate the genuine multipartite nonlocality of three-mode Gaussian states
of continuous variable systems. For pure states, we present a simplified
procedure to obtain the maximum violation of the Svetlichny inequality based on
displaced parity measurements, and we analyze its interplay with genuine
tripartite entanglement measured via Rényi-2 entropy. The maximum Svetlichny
violation admits tight upper and lower bounds at fixed tripartite entanglement.
For mixed states, no violation is possible when the purity falls below 0.86. We
also explore a set of recently derived weaker inequalities for three-way
nonlocality, finding violations for all tested pure states. Our results provide a
strong signature for the nonclassical and nonlocal nature of Gaussian states
despite their positive Wigner function, and lead to precise recipes for its
experimental verification.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevLett.112.010401 
PMID: 24483871 


55. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2014 Apr 24;124:108-23. doi:
10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.103. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Structural and spectroscopic characterization of a novel potential
anti-inflammatory agent 3-(adamantan-1-yl)-4-ethyl-1H-1,2,4-triazole-5(4H)thione 
by first principle calculations.

Al-Tamimi AM(1), El-Emam AA(2), Al-Deeb OA(2), Prasad O(3), Pathak SK(3),
Srivastava R(3), Sinha L(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, Salman bin
Abdulaziz University, Alkharj 11942, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, King Saud
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Physics, University of Lucknow, Lucknow, India.
(4)Department of Physics, University of Lucknow, Lucknow, India. Electronic
address: sinhaleena27@gmail.com.

A comprehensive investigation on the molecular structure, electronic properties
and vibrational spectra of the
3-(adamantan-1-yl)-4-ethyl-1H-1,2,4-triazole-5(4H)thione, a novel potential
anti-inflammatory agent has been done with the hope that the results of present
study may be helpful in the prediction of its mechanism of biological activity.
The experimentally observed spectral data (FT-IR and FT-Raman) of the title
compound was compared with the spectral data obtained by DFT/B3LYP method. The
(1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) chemical shifts of the molecule were
calculated by the Gauge Including Atomic Orbital method and compared with
experimental results. The molecular properties like dipole moment,
polarizability, first static hyperpolarizability, the molecular electrostatic
potential surface, contour map have been calculated to get a better insight of
the properties of the title molecule. Natural bond orbital (NBO) analysis has
been applied to study stability of the molecule arising from charge
delocalization. UV-Vis spectrum of the title compound was also recorded and the
electronic properties, such as Frontier orbitals and band gap energies were
calculated by TD-DFT approach. Global and local reactivity descriptors have been 
computed to predict reactivity and reactive sites on the molecule.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.103 
PMID: 24468983  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2014 Mar 25;122:767-71. doi:
10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.089. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Photoluminescence properties of the high-brightness Eu(3+)-doped KNaCa2(PO4)2
phosphors.

jin C(1), Ma H(2), Liu Q(3), Li X(4), Liu P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Electronic Engineering, Baoding University, Baoding 
071002, China.
(2)College of Science, Agricultural University of Hebei, Baoding 071002, China.
(3)Department of Physics and Electronic Engineering, Baoding University, Baoding 
071002, China. Electronic address: bdxylqb@163.com.
(4)College of Physics Science and Technology, Hebei University, Baoding 071002,
China.

A series of red-emitting phosphors Eu(3+)-doped KNaCa2(PO4)2 were synthesized by 
solid-state reaction, and the photoluminescence (PL) properties were also
investigated. The excitation spectrum is composed of charge-transfer (CT) of Eu-O
and excitation lines of Eu(3+) ions. The strongest excitation lines appeared at
393 nm. The emission spectra of KNaCa2(PO4)2:Eu(3+) phosphors exhibit five peaks 
assigned to the (5)D0-(7)FJ (J=0, 1, 2, 3, 4) transitions of Eu(3+) and have
dominating emission peak at 621 nm under 393 nm excitation. The luminescence
intensity enhanced with increasing Eu(3+) content and the emission reached the
maximum intensity at x=0.02 in KNaCa2-x(PO4)2:xEu(3+). The effect of the charge
compensators on the emission intensity of the phosphors was investigated. The
integral intensity of the emission spectrum of KNaCa1.96(PO4)2:0.02Eu(3+),
0.02Na(+) excited at 393 nm is about 2.4 times as strong as that of
Y2O3:0.05Eu(3+) commercial red phosphor. The color coordinates for
KNaCa1.96(PO4)2:0.02Eu(3+),0.02Na(+) were measured. The results indicate that
KNaCa2(PO4)2:Eu(3+) might be a promising phosphor for w-LEDs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.089 
PMID: 24467992  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Spectrochim Acta A Mol Biomol Spectrosc. 2014 Apr 24;124:30-3. doi:
10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.032. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Spectral studies of 2-pyrazoline derivatives: structural elucidation through
single crystal XRD and DFT calculations.

Chinnaraja D(1), Rajalakshmi R(2), Srinivasan T(3), Velmurugan D(3), Jayabharathi
J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar 608 002, Tamil
Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar 608 002, Tamil
Nadu, India. Electronic address: chemrajalaksmi@gmail.com.
(3)CAS in Crystallography and Biophysics, University of Madras, Chennai 600 025, 
Tamil Nadu, India.

A series of biologically active N-thiocarbamoyl pyrazoline derivatives have been 
synthesized using anhydrous potassium carbonate as the catalyst. All the
synthesized compounds were characterized by FT-IR, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR spectral
studies, LCMS, CHN Analysis and X-ray diffraction analysis (compound 7). In order
to supplement the XRD parameters, molecular modelling was carried out by Gaussian
03W. From the optimized structure, the energy, dipolemoment and HOMO-LUMO
energies of all the systems were calculated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.saa.2013.12.032 
PMID: 24457935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Bioresour Technol. 2014 Mar;155:245-51. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2013.12.116. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Isothermal and non-isothermal torrefaction characteristics and kinetics of
microalga Scenedesmus obliquus CNW-N.

Chen WH(1), Wu ZY(2), Chang JS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Aeronautics and Astronautics, National Cheng Kung University,
Tainan 701, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: weihsinchen@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan
701, Taiwan, ROC.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan
701, Taiwan, ROC; Center for Bioscience and Biotechnology, National Cheng Kung
University, Tainan 701, Taiwan, ROC; Research Center for Energy Technology and
Strategy, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic
address: changjs@mail.ncku.edu.tw.

Isothermal and non-isothermal torrefaction characteristics and kinetics of
microalga Scenedesmus obliquus (S. obliquus) CNW-N are studied using
thermogravimetric analysis. The pyrolysis of S. obliquus CNW-N with increasing
temperature is characterized by four-stage decomposition. Depending on the
torrefaction temperature, light, mild, and severe torrefaction from the weight
loss and the maximum decomposition rate of the microalga can be classified. Under
the same average temperature and torrefaction duration, non-isothermal
torrefaction gives more severe pretreatment than the isothermal one. Increasing
the heating rate of non-isothermal torrefaction also intensifies the pretreatment
severity. Therefore, microalgae can be torrefied via non-isothermal torrefaction 
in a shorter time under the same pretreatment extent. The atomic H/C ratio in the
microalga decreases with increasing torrefaction severity, whereas the atomic O/C
ratio rises. The analysis suggests that the activation energy of isothermal
torrefaction is 57.52×10(3)Jmol(-1), while it is between 40.14×10(3) and
88.41×10(3)Jmol(-1) for non-isothermal torrefaction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2013.12.116 
PMID: 24457308  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Beilstein J Nanotechnol. 2014 Jan 6;5:19-25. doi: 10.3762/bjnano.5.2. eCollection
2014 Jan 6.

Many-body effects in semiconducting single-wall silicon nanotubes.

Wei W(1), Jacob T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Electrochemistry, Ulm University, Albert-Einstein-Allee 47,
D-89081 Ulm, Germany.

The electronic and optical properties of semiconducting silicon nanotubes (SiNTs)
are studied by means of the many-body Green's function method, i.e., GW
approximation and Bethe-Salpeter equation. In these studied structures, i.e.,
(4,4), (6,6) and (10,0) SiNTs, self-energy effects are enhanced giving rise to
large quasi-particle (QP) band gaps due to the confinement effect. The strong
electron-electron (e-e) correlations broaden the band gaps of the studied SiNTs
from 0.65, 0.28 and 0.05 eV at DFT level to 1.9, 1.22 and 0.79 eV at GW level.
The Coulomb electron-hole (e-h) interactions significantly modify optical
absorption properties obtained at noninteracting-particle level with the
formation of bound excitons with considerable binding energies (of the order of 1
eV) assigned: the binding energies of the armchair (4,4), (6,6) and zigzag (10,0)
SiNTs are 0.92, 1.1 and 0.6 eV, respectively. Results in this work are useful for
understanding the physics and applications in silicon-based nanoscale device
components.

DOI: 10.3762/bjnano.5.2 
PMCID: PMC3896257
PMID: 24455458 


60. Nat Chem. 2014 Feb;6(2):146-50. doi: 10.1038/nchem.1836. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Ligand-enabled cross-coupling of C(sp3)-H bonds with arylboron reagents via
Pd(II)/Pd(0) catalysis.

Chan KS(1), Wasa M(1), Chu L(1), Laforteza BN(1), Miura M(1), Yu JQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 N. Torrey Pines
Road, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

There have been numerous developments in C-H activation reactions in the past
decade. Attracted by the ability to functionalize molecules directly at
ostensibly unreactive C-H bonds, chemists have discovered reaction conditions
that enable reactions of C(sp(2))-H and C(sp(3))-H bonds with a variety of
coupling partners. Despite these advances, the development of suitable ligands
that enable catalytic C(sp(3))-H bond functionalization remains a significant
challenge. Herein we report the discovery of a mono-N-protected amino acid ligand
that enables Pd(II)-catalysed coupling of γ-C(sp(3))-H bonds in triflyl-protected
amines with arylboron reagents. Remarkably, no background reaction was observed
in the absence of ligand. A variety of amine substrates and arylboron reagents
were cross-coupled using this method. Arylation of optically active substrates
derived from amino acids also provides a potential route for preparing
non-proteinogenic amino acids.

DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1836 
PMCID: PMC4077182
PMID: 24451591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Nat Chem. 2014 Feb;6(2):97-103. doi: 10.1038/nchem.1833. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Hollow nanotubular toroidal polymer microrings.

Lee J(1), Baek K(1), Kim M(2), Yun G(1), Ko YH(3), Lee NS(4), Hwang I(1), Kim
J(1), Natarajan R(5), Park CG(6), Sung W(2), Kim K(7).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Self-assembly and Complexity, Institute for Basic Science (IBS),
Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea [2] Department of Chemistry, Pohang University
of Science and Technology, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Physics, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang,
790-784, Republic of Korea.
(3)Center for Self-assembly and Complexity, Institute for Basic Science (IBS),
Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(4)National Institute for Nanomaterials Technology, Pohang University of Science 
and Technology, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(5)Division of Advanced Materials Science, Pohang University of Science and
Technology, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(6)1] National Institute for Nanomaterials Technology, Pohang University of
Science and Technology, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea [2] Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, Pohang University of Science and Technology,
Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(7)1] Center for Self-assembly and Complexity, Institute for Basic Science (IBS),
Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea [2] Department of Chemistry, Pohang University
of Science and Technology, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea [3] Division of
Advanced Materials Science, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang, 
790-784, Republic of Korea.

Despite the remarkable progress made in the self-assembly of nano- and microscale
architectures with well-defined sizes and shapes, a self-organization-based
synthesis of hollow toroids has, so far, proved to be elusive. Here, we report
the synthesis of polymer microrings made from rectangular, flat and rigid-core
monomers with anisotropically predisposed alkene groups, which are crosslinked
with each other by dithiol linkers using thiol-ene photopolymerization. The
resulting hollow toroidal structures are shape-persistent and mechanically robust
in solution. In addition, their size can be tuned by controlling the initial
monomer concentrations, an observation that is supported by a theoretical
analysis. These hollow microrings can encapsulate guest molecules in the
intratoroidal nanospace, and their peripheries can act as templates for circular 
arrays of metal nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1833 
PMID: 24451584  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2014 Jan 6;15(1):4530. doi: 10.1120/jacmp.v15i1.4530.

A bias-free, automated planning tool for technique comparison in radiotherapy -
application to nasopharyngeal carcinoma treatments.

Boylan C(1), Rowbottom C.

Author information: 
(1)Christie Medical Physics and Engineering, The Christie NHS Foundation Trust.
christopher.boylan@christie.nhs.uk.

In this study a novel, user-independent automated planning technique was
developed to objectively compare volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) and
intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) for nasopharyngeal carcinoma planning,
and to determine which technique offers a greater benefit for parotid-sparing and
dose escalation strategies. Ten patients were investigated, with a standard
prescription of three dose levels to the target volumes (70, 63, and 56 Gy),
using a simultaneous integrated boost in 33 fractions. The automated tool was
used to investigate three planning strategies with both IMRT and VMAT: clinically
acceptable plan creation, parotid dose sparing, and dose escalation. Clinically
acceptable plans were achieved for all patients using both techniques. For
parotid sparing, automated planning reduced the mean dose to a greater extent
using VMAT rather than IMRT (17.0 Gy and 19.6 Gy, respectively, p &lt; 0.01). For
dose escalation to the mean of the main clinical target volume, neither VMAT nor 
IMRT offered a significant benefit over the other. The OAR-limiting prescriptions
for VMAT ranged from 84-98 Gy, compared to 76-110 Gy for IMRT. Employing a
user-independent planning technique, it was possible to objectively compare VMAT 
and IMRT for nasopharyngeal carcinoma treatment strategies. VMAT offers a
parotid-sparing improvement, but no significant benefit was observed for dose
escalation to the primary target.

DOI: 10.1120/jacmp.v15i1.4530 
PMCID: PMC5711248
PMID: 24423853  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Appl Clin Med Phys. 2014 Jan 6;15(1):4451. doi: 10.1120/jacmp.v15i1.4451.

Correlation of admissions statistics to graduate student success in medical
physics.

Burmeister J(1), McSpadden E, Rakowski J, Nalichowski A, Yudelev M, Snyder M.

Author information: 
(1)Wayne State University School of Medicine, Karmanos Cancer Center.
burmeist@karmanos.org.

The purpose of this work is to develop metrics for evaluation of medical physics 
graduate student performance, assess relationships between success and other
quantifiable factors, and determine whether graduate student performance can be
accurately predicted by admissions statistics. A cohort of 108 medical physics
graduate students from a single institution were rated for performance after
matriculation based on final scores in specific courses, first year graduate
Grade Point Average (GPA), performance on the program exit exam, performance in
oral review sessions, and faculty rating. Admissions statistics including
matriculating program (MS vs. PhD); undergraduate degree type, GPA, and country; 
graduate degree; general and subject GRE scores; traditional vs. nontraditional
status; and ranking by admissions committee were evaluated for potential
correlation with the performance metrics. GRE verbal and quantitative scores were
correlated with higher scores in the most difficult courses in the program and
with the program exit exam; however, the GRE section most correlated with overall
faculty rating was the analytical writing section. Students with undergraduate
degrees in engineering had a higher faculty rating than those from other
disciplines and faculty rating was strongly correlated with undergraduate
country. Undergraduate GPA was not statistically correlated with any success
metrics investigated in this study. However, the high degree of selection on GPA 
and quantitative GRE scores during the admissions process results in relatively
narrow ranges for these quantities. As such, these results do not necessarily
imply that one should not strongly consider traditional metrics, such as
undergraduate GPA and quantitative GRE score, during the admissions process. They
suggest that once applicants have been initially filtered by these metrics,
additional selection should be performed via the other metrics shown here to be
correlated with success. The parameters used to make admissions decisions for our
program are accurate in predicting student success, as illustrated by the very
strong statistical correlation between admissions rank and course average, first 
year graduate GPA, and faculty rating (p &lt; 0.002). Overall, this study
indicates that an undergraduate degree in physics should not be considered a
fundamental requirement for entry into our program and that within the relatively
narrow range of undergraduate GPA and quantitative GRE scores of those admitted
into our program, additional variations in these metrics are not important
predictors of success. While the high degree of selection on particular
statistics involved in the admissions process, along with the relatively small
sample size, makes it difficult to draw concrete conclusions about the meaning of
correlations here, these results suggest that success in medical physics is based
on more than quantitative capabilities. Specifically, they indicate that
analytical and communication skills play a major role in student success in our
program, as well as predicted future success by program faculty members. Finally,
this study confirms that our current admissions process is effective in
identifying candidates who will be successful in our program and are expected to 
be successful after graduation, and provides additional insight useful in
improving our admissions selection process.

DOI: 10.1120/jacmp.v15i1.4451 
PMCID: PMC5711228
PMID: 24423842  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Phys Chem Lett. 2014 Jan 16;5(2):393-8. doi: 10.1021/jz4026535. Epub 2014 Jan
7.

Porous Boron Nitride with Tunable Pore Size.

Dai J(1), Wu X(2), Yang J(3), Zeng XC(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Chemistry and Nebraska Center for Materials and Nanoscience,
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 536 Hamilton Hall, Lincoln, Nebraska 68588,
United States.
(2)‡CAS Key Lab of Materials for Energy Conversion, Department of Materials
Science and Engineering and Hefei National Lab for Physical Science at
Microscale, University of Science and Technology of China, Jinzhai Road 96,
Hefei, Anhui 230026, China.
(3)§Department of Chemical Physics and Hefei National Lab for Physical Science at
Microscale, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui 230026,
China.

On the basis of a global structural search and first-principles calculations, we 
predict two types of porous boron-nitride (BN) networks that can be built up with
zigzag BN nanoribbons (BNNRs). The BNNRs are either directly connected with
puckered B (N) atoms at the edge (type I) or connected with sp(3)-bonded BN
chains (type II). Besides mechanical stability, these materials are predicted to 
be thermally stable at 1000 K. The porous BN materials entail large surface
areas, ranging from 2800 to 4800 m(2)/g. In particular, type-II BN material with 
relatively large pores is highly favorable for hydrogen storage because the
computed hydrogen adsorption energy (-0.18 eV) is very close to the optimal
adsorption energy (-0.15 eV) suggested for reversible hydrogen storage at room
temperature. Moreover, the type-II materials are semiconductors with
width-dependent direct bandgaps, rendering the type-II BN materials promising not
only for hydrogen storage but also for optoelectronic and photonic applications.

DOI: 10.1021/jz4026535 
PMID: 26270717 


65. J Phys Chem Lett. 2014 Jan 16;5(2):387-92. doi: 10.1021/jz4026003. Epub 2014 Jan 
7.

Vibrational Perturbations and Ligand-Layer Coupling in a Single Crystal of
Au144(SC2H4Ph)60 Nanocluster.

Koivisto J(1), Salorinne K(1), Mustalahti S(1), Lahtinen T(1), Malola S(1),
Häkkinen H(1), Pettersson M(1).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Chemistry and ‡Department of Physics, Nanoscience Center,
University of Jyväskylä, FI-40014 Jyväskylä, Finland.

We have determined vibrational signatures and optical gap of the Au144(PET)60
(PET: phenylethylthiol, SC2H4Ph) nanocluster solvated in deuterated
dichloromethane (DCM-D2, CD2Cl2) and in a single crystal. For crystals,
solid-state (13)C NMR and X-ray diffraction were also measured. A revised value
of 2200 cm(-1) (0.27 eV) was obtained for the optical gap in both phases. The
vibrational spectra of solvated AU144(PET)60 closely resembles that of neat PET, 
while the crystalline-state spectrum exhibits significant inhomogeneous spectral 
broadening, frequency shifts, intensity transfer between vibrational modes, and
an increase in the overtone and combination transition intensities. Spectral
broadening was also observed in the (13)C NMR spectrum. Changes in the intensity 
are explained due to vibrational coupling of the normal modes induced by the
crystal packing, and the vibrational broadening is caused by ligand-environment
inhomogeneity in the crystal. This indicates a pseudocrystalline state where the 
cluster cores are arranged in periodic fashion, while the ligand-layer molecules 
between the cores form amorphous structures.

DOI: 10.1021/jz4026003 
PMID: 26270716 


66. J Phys Chem Lett. 2014 Jan 16;5(2):370-4. doi: 10.1021/jz402795x. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

Porous Au Nanoparticles with Tunable Plasmon Resonances and Intense Field
Enhancements for Single-Particle SERS.

Zhang Q(1), Large N(2), Nordlander P(2), Wang H(1).

Author information: 
(1)†Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, 631
Sumter Street, Columbia, South Carolina 29208, United States.
(2)‡Department of Physics and Astronomy, Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, and Laboratory for Nanophotonics, Rice University, Houston, Texas
77005, United States.

Porous Au nanoparticles with fine-controlled overall particle sizes have been
fabricated using a kinetically controlled seed-mediated growth method. In
contrast to spherical Au nanoparticles with smooth surfaces, the porous Au
nanoparticles exhibit far greater size-dependent plasmonic tunability and
significantly intensified local electric field enhancements exploitable for
single-particle plasmon-enhanced spectroscopies. The effects of the nanoscale
porosity on the far- and near-field optical properties of the nanoparticles have 
been investigated both experimentally by optical extinction and
single-nanoparticle Raman spectroscopic measurements and theoretically through
finite-difference time-domain calculations.

DOI: 10.1021/jz402795x 
PMID: 26270713 


67. Chemosphere. 2014 Jul;107:249-56. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.12.050. Epub
2014 Jan 7.

Bisphenol A sorption by organo-montmorillonite: implications for the removal of
organic contaminants from water.

Park Y(1), Sun Z(2), Ayoko GA(3), Frost RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, Physics and Mechanical Engineering, Queensland University
of Technology, GPO 2434, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia.
(2)School of Chemistry, Physics and Mechanical Engineering, Queensland University
of Technology, GPO 2434, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia; School of Chemical
and Environmental Engineering, China University of Mining and Technology, Beijing
100083, PR China.
(3)School of Chemistry, Physics and Mechanical Engineering, Queensland University
of Technology, GPO 2434, Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia. Electronic
address: g.ayoko@qut.edu.au.

Remediation of bisphenol A (BPA) from aqueous solutions by adsorption using
organoclays synthesized from montmorillonite (MMT) with different types of
organic surfactant molecules was demonstrated. High adsorption capacities of the 
organoclays for the uptake of BPA were observed and these demonstrated their
potential application as strong adsorbents for noxious organic water
contaminants. The adsorption of BPA was significantly influenced by pH, with
increased adsorption of BPA in acidic pH range. However, the organoclays
intercalated with highly loaded surfactants and/or large surfactant molecules
were less influenced by the pH of the environment and this was thought to be due 
to the shielding the negative charge from surfactant molecules and the
development of more positive charge on the clay surface, which leads to the
attraction of anionic BPA even at alkaline pH. The hydrophobic phase created by
loaded surfactant molecules contributed to a partitioning phase, interacting with
BPA molecules strongly through hydrophobic interaction. Pseudo-second order
kinetic model and Langmuir isotherm provided the best fit for the adsorption of
BPA onto the organoclays. In addition, the adsorption process was spontaneous and
exothermic with lower temperature facilitating the adsorption of BPA onto the
organoclays. The described process provides a potential pathway for the removal
of BPA from contaminated waters.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.12.050 
PMID: 24412097  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Mar 1;88(3):746-52. doi:
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.11.006. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

32P brachytherapy conformal source model RIC-100 for high-dose-rate treatment of 
superficial disease: Monte Carlo calculations, diode measurements, and clinical
implementation.

Cohen GN(1), Munro JJ 3rd(2), Kirov A(3), Losasso T(3), Yamada Y(4), Williamson
M(3), Dauer LT(3), Zaider M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York. Electronic address: coheng@mskcc.org.
(2)Montrose Technology, Inc, North Andover, Massachusetts.
(3)Department of Medical Physics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New
York, New York.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York.

PURPOSE: A novel (32)P brachytherapy source has been in use at our institution
intraoperatively for temporary radiation therapy of the spinal dura and other
localized tumors. We describe the dosimetry and clinical implementation of the
source.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Dosimetric evaluation for the source was done with a
complete set of MCNP5 Monte Carlo calculations preceding clinical implementation.
In addition, the depth dose curve and dose rate were measured by use of an
electron field diode to verify the Monte Carlo calculations. Calibration
procedures using the diode in a custom-designed phantom to provide an absolute
dose calibration and to check dose uniformity across the source area for each
source before treatment were established.
RESULTS: Good agreement was established between the Monte Carlo calculations and 
diode measurements. Quality assurance measurements results are provided for about
100 sources used to date. Clinical source calibrations were usually within 10% of
manufacturer specifications. Procedures for safe handling of the source are
described.
DISCUSSION: Clinical considerations for using the source are discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.11.006 
PMID: 24411623  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):244-52. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.09.036.

Single-molecule measurements of the CCR5 mRNA unfolding pathways.

de Messieres M(1), Chang JC(1), Belew AT(2), Meskauskas A(2), Dinman JD(2), La
Porta A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Institute for Physical Science and Technology
Biophysics Program, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland,
College Park, Maryland.
(3)Department of Physics, Institute for Physical Science and Technology
Biophysics Program, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Electronic
address: alaporta@umd.edu.

Secondary or tertiary structure in an mRNA, such as a pseudoknot, can create a
physical barrier that requires the ribosome to generate additional force to
translocate. The presence of such a barrier can dramatically increase the
probability that the ribosome will shift into an alternate reading frame, in
which a different set of codons is recognized. The detailed biophysical mechanism
by which frameshifting is induced remains unknown. Here we employ optical
trapping techniques to investigate the structure of a -1 programmed ribosomal
frameshift (-1 PRF) sequence element located in the CCR5 mRNA, which encodes a
coreceptor for HIV-1 and is, to our knowledge, the first known human -1 PRF
signal of nonviral origin. We begin by presenting a set of computationally
predicted structures that include pseudoknots. We then employ what we believe to 
be new analytical techniques for measuring the effective free energy landscapes
of biomolecules. We find that the -1 PRF element manifests several distinct
unfolding pathways when subject to end-to-end force, one of which is consistent
with a proposed pseudoknot conformation, and another of which we have identified 
as a folding intermediate. The dynamic ensemble of conformations that CCR5 mRNA
exhibits in the single-molecule experiments may be a significant feature of the
frameshifting mechanism.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.09.036 
PMCID: PMC3907219
PMID: 24411256  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):145-53. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.09.059.

Dynamics of the serine chemoreceptor in the Escherichia coli inner membrane: a
high-speed single-molecule tracking study.

Oh D(1), Yu Y(2), Lee H(1), Wanner BL(3), Ritchie K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.
(3)Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana.
Electronic address: blwanner@purdue.edu.
(4)Department of Physics, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana. Electronic 
address: kpritchie@purdue.edu.

We investigated the mobility of the polar localized serine chemoreceptor, Tsr,
labeled by the fluorescent protein Venus in the inner membrane of live
Escherichia coli cells at observation rates up to 1000 Hz. A fraction (7%) of all
Tsr molecules shows free diffusion over the entire cell surface with an average
diffusion coefficient of 0.40 ± 0.01 μm(2) s(-1). The remaining molecules were
found to be ultimately confined in compartments of size 290 ± 15 nm and showed
restricted diffusion at an inner barrier found at 170 ± 10 nm. At the shortest
length-scales (<170 nm), all Tsr molecules diffuse equally. Disruption of the
cytoskeleton and rounding of the cells resulted in an increase in the mobile
fraction of Tsr molecules and a fragmenting of the previously polar cluster of
Tsr consistent with a curvature-based mechanism of Tsr cluster maintenance.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.09.059 
PMCID: PMC3907255
PMID: 24411246  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):106-13. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.3703.

Evidence for two extremes of ciliary motor response in a single swimming
microorganism.

Jung I(1), Powers TR(2), Valles JM Jr(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(2)Department of Physics, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island; School of
Engineering, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island.
(3)Department of Physics, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island. Electronic 
address: james_valles_jr@brown.edu.

Because arrays of motile cilia drive fluids for a range of processes, the
versatile mechano-chemical mechanism coordinating them has been under scrutiny.
The protist Paramecium presents opportunities to compare how groups of cilia
perform two distinct functions, swimming propulsion and nutrient uptake. We
present how the body cilia responsible for propulsion and the oral-groove cilia
responsible for nutrient uptake respond to changes in their mechanical
environment accomplished by varying the fluid viscosity over a factor of 7.
Analysis with a phenomenological model of trajectories of swimmers made neutrally
buoyant with magnetic forces combined with high-speed imaging of ciliary beating 
reveal that the body cilia exert a nearly constant propulsive force primarily by 
reducing their beat frequency as viscosity increases. By contrast, the
oral-groove cilia beat at a nearly constant frequency. The existence of two
extremes of motor response in a unicellular organism prompts unique
investigations of factors controlling ciliary beating.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.3703 
PMCID: PMC3907369
PMID: 24411242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):84-92. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.009.

Theoretical analysis of membrane tension in moving cells.

Schweitzer Y(1), Lieber AD(2), Keren K(3), Kozlov MM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel
Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa,
Israel; Russell Berrie Nanotechnology Institute, Technion, Israel Institute of
Technology, Haifa, Israel.
(3)Department of Physics, Technion, Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa,
Israel; Russell Berrie Nanotechnology Institute, Technion, Israel Institute of
Technology, Haifa, Israel; Network Biology Research Laboratories, Technion,
Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.
(4)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel
Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel. Electronic address:
michk@post.tau.ac.il.

Lateral tension in cell plasma membranes plays an essential role in regulation of
a number of membrane-related intracellular processes and cell motion.
Understanding the physical factors generating the lateral tension and
quantitative determination of the tension distribution along the cell membrane is
an emerging topic of cell biophysics. Although experimental data are accumulating
on membrane tension values in several cell types, the tension distribution along 
the membranes of moving cells remains largely unexplored. Here we suggest and
analyze a theoretical model predicting the tension distribution along the
membrane of a cell crawling on a flat substrate. We consider the tension to be
generated by the force of actin network polymerization against the membrane at
the cell leading edge. The three major factors determining the tension
distribution are the membrane interaction with anchors connecting the actin
network to the lipid bilayer, the membrane interaction with cell adhesions, and
the force developing at the rear boundary due to the detachment of the remaining 
cell adhesion from the substrate in the course of cell crawling. Our model
recovers the experimentally measured values of the tension in fish keratocytes
and their dependence on the number of adhesions. The model predicts,
quantitatively, the tension distribution between the leading and rear membrane
edges as a function of the area fractions of the anchors and the adhesions.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.009 
PMCID: PMC3907240
PMID: 24411240  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):74-83. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.027.

Mapping the energy and diffusion landscapes of membrane proteins at the cell
surface using high-density single-molecule imaging and Bayesian inference:
application to the multiscale dynamics of glycine receptors in the neuronal
membrane.

Masson JB(1), Dionne P(2), Salvatico C(3), Renner M(3), Specht CG(3), Triller
A(4), Dahan M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Physics of Biological Systems, Pasteur Institute, Paris, France; Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR 3525, Paris, France. Electronic
address: jbmasson@pasteur.fr.
(2)Laboratoire Kastler Brossel, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR 
8552, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris, France; Centre de Recherche Universit
Laval Robert-Giffard, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Biologie Cellulaire de la Synapse, Institut National de la Sante et de la
Recherche Medicale U1024, Institut de Biologie de l'Ecole Normale Superieure,
Paris, France.
(4)Biologie Cellulaire de la Synapse, Institut National de la Sante et de la
Recherche Medicale U1024, Institut de Biologie de l'Ecole Normale Superieure,
Paris, France. Electronic address: triller@biologie.ens.fr.
(5)Laboratoire Kastler Brossel, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR 
8552, Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris, France; Laboratoire Physico-Chimie,
Institut Curie, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR 168, Universit
Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, Paris, France. Electronic address:
maxime.dahan@curie.fr.

Protein mobility is conventionally analyzed in terms of an effective diffusion.
Yet, this description often fails to properly distinguish and evaluate the
physical parameters (such as the membrane friction) and the biochemical
interactions governing the motion. Here, we present a method combining
high-density single-molecule imaging and statistical inference to separately map 
the diffusion and energy landscapes of membrane proteins across the cell surface 
at ~100 nm resolution (with acquisition of a few minutes). Upon applying these
analytical tools to glycine neurotransmitter receptors at inhibitory synapses, we
find that gephyrin scaffolds act as shallow energy traps (~3 kBT) for glycine
neurotransmitter receptors, with a depth modulated by the biochemical properties 
of the receptor-gephyrin interaction loop. In turn, the inferred maps can be used
to simulate the dynamics of proteins in the membrane, from the level of
individual receptors to that of the population, and thereby, to model the
stochastic fluctuations of physiological parameters (such as the number of
receptors at synapses). Overall, our approach provides a powerful and
comprehensive framework with which to analyze biochemical interactions in living 
cells and to decipher the multiscale dynamics of biomolecules in complex cellular
environments.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.027 
PMCID: PMC3907207
PMID: 24411239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):65-73. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.015.

Border forces and friction control epithelial closure dynamics.

Cochet-Escartin O(1), Ranft J(1), Silberzan P(2), Marcq P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Physico-Chimie Curie, Unité Mixte de Recherche 168, Institut Curie, Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris,
France.
(2)Physico-Chimie Curie, Unité Mixte de Recherche 168, Institut Curie, Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris,
France. Electronic address: pascal.silberzan@curie.fr.
(3)Physico-Chimie Curie, Unité Mixte de Recherche 168, Institut Curie, Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris,
France. Electronic address: philippe.marcq@curie.fr.

We study the closure dynamics of a large number of well-controlled circular
apertures within an epithelial monolayer, where the collective cell migration
responsible for epithelization is triggered by the removal of a spatial
constraint rather than by scratching. Based on experimental observations, we
propose a physical model that takes into account border forces, friction with the
substrate, and tissue rheology. Border protrusive activity drives epithelization 
despite the presence of a contractile actomyosin cable at the periphery of the
wound. The closure dynamics is quantified by an epithelization coefficient,
defined as the ratio of protrusive stress to tissue-substrate friction, that
allows classification of different phenotypes. The same analysis demonstrates a
distinct signature for human cells bearing the oncogenic RasV12 mutation,
demonstrating the potential of the approach to quantitatively characterize
metastatic transformations.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.015 
PMCID: PMC3907253
PMID: 24411238  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):47-54. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.1118.

Direct measurement of helical cell motion of the spirochete leptospira.

Nakamura S(1), Leshansky A(2), Magariyama Y(3), Namba K(4), Kudo S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku
University, Miyagi, Japan. Electronic address: naka@bp.apph.tohoku.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Chemical Engineering, Technion, Haifa, Israel.
(3)National Food Research Institute, National Agriculture and Food Research
Organization, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences, Osaka University, Osaka, Japan;
Quantitative Biology Center, RIKEN, Osaka, Japan.
(5)Department of Applied Physics, Graduate School of Engineering, Tohoku
University, Miyagi, Japan. Electronic address: kudo@m.tohoku.ac.jp.

Leptospira are spirochete bacteria distinguished by a short-pitch coiled body and
intracellular flagella. Leptospira cells swim in liquid with an asymmetric
morphology of the cell body; the anterior end has a long-pitch spiral shape
(S-end) and the posterior end is hook-shaped (H-end). Although the S-end and the 
coiled cell body called the protoplasmic cylinder are thought to be responsible
for propulsion together, most observations on the motion mechanism have remained 
qualitative. In this study, we analyzed the swimming speed and rotation rate of
the S-end, protoplasmic cylinder, and H-end of individual Leptospira cells by
one-sided dark-field microscopy. At various viscosities of media containing
different concentrations of Ficoll, the rotation rate of the S-end and
protoplasmic cylinder showed a clear correlation with the swimming speed,
suggesting that these two helical parts play a central role in the motion of
Leptospira. In contrast, the H-end rotation rate was unstable and showed much
less correlation with the swimming speed. Forces produced by the rotation of the 
S-end and protoplasmic cylinder showed that these two helical parts contribute to
propulsion at nearly equal magnitude. Torque generated by each part, also
obtained from experimental motion parameters, indicated that the flagellar motor 
can generate torque >4000 pN nm, twice as large as that of Escherichia coli.
Furthermore, the S-end torque was found to show a markedly larger fluctuation
than the protoplasmic cylinder torque, suggesting that the unstable H-end
rotation might be mechanically related to changes in the S-end rotation rate for 
torque balance of the entire cell. Variations in torque at the anterior and
posterior ends of the Leptospira cell body could be transmitted from one end to
the other through the cell body to coordinate the morphological transformations
of the two ends for a rapid change in the swimming direction.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.11.1118 
PMCID: PMC3907252
PMID: 24411236  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):37-46. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.038.

Switching of Swimming Modes in Magnetospirillium gryphiswaldense.

Reufer M(1), Besseling R(2), Schwarz-Linek J(2), Martinez VA(2), Morozov AN(2),
Arlt J(2), Trubitsyn D(3), Ward FB(4), Poon WC(2).

Author information: 
(1)SUPA and COSMIC, School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Edinburgh,
King's Buildings, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. Electronic address:
mathias.reufer@gmx.ch.
(2)SUPA and COSMIC, School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Edinburgh,
King's Buildings, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(3)SUPA and COSMIC, School of Physics and Astronomy, The University of Edinburgh,
King's Buildings, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; Institute of Cell Biology, The
University of Edinburgh, King's Buildings, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(4)Institute of Cell Biology, The University of Edinburgh, King's Buildings,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    Biophys J. 2014 Feb 18;106(4):986.

The microaerophilic magnetotactic bacterium Magnetospirillum gryphiswaldense
swims along magnetic field lines using a single flagellum at each cell pole. It
is believed that this magnetotactic behavior enables cells to seek optimal oxygen
concentration with maximal efficiency. We analyze the trajectories of swimming M.
gryphiswaldense cells in external magnetic fields larger than the earth's field, 
and show that each cell can switch very rapidly (in <0.2 s) between a fast and a 
slow swimming mode. Close to a glass surface, a variety of trajectories were
observed, from straight swimming that systematically deviates from field lines to
various helices. A model in which fast (slow) swimming is solely due to the
rotation of the trailing (leading) flagellum can account for these observations. 
We determined the magnetic moment of this bacterium using a to our knowledge new 
method, and obtained a value of (2.0±0.6) × 10(-16) A · m(2). This value is found
to be consistent with parameters emerging from quantitative fitting of
trajectories to our model.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.038 
PMCID: PMC3907262
PMID: 24411235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):26-36. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.043.

Ligand mobility regulates B cell receptor clustering and signaling activation.

Ketchum C(1), Miller H(2), Song W(2), Upadhyaya A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Graduate Program, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742.
(2)Department of Cell Biology & Molecular Genetics, University of Maryland,
College Park, MD 20742.
(3)Biophysics Graduate Program, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742;
Institute for Physical Science and Technology, University of Maryland, College
Park, MD 20742; Department of Physics, University of Maryland, College Park, MD
20742. Electronic address: arpitau@umd.edu.

Antigen binding to the B cell receptor (BCR) induces receptor clustering, cell
spreading, and the formation of signaling microclusters, triggering B cell
activation. Although the biochemical pathways governing early B cell signaling
have been well studied, the role of the physical properties of antigens, such as 
antigen mobility, has not been fully examined. We study the interaction of B
cells with BCR ligands coated on glass or tethered to planar lipid bilayer
surfaces to investigate the differences in B cell response to immobile and mobile
ligands. Using high-resolution total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF)
microscopy of live cells, we followed the movement and spatial organization of
BCR clusters and the associated signaling. Although ligands on either surface
were able to cross-link BCRs and induce clustering, B cells interacting with
mobile ligands displayed greater signaling than those interacting with immobile
ligands. Quantitative analysis revealed that mobile ligands enabled BCR clusters 
to move farther and merge more efficiently than immobile ligands. These
differences in physical reorganization of receptor clusters were associated with 
differences in actin remodeling. Perturbation experiments revealed that a dynamic
actin cytoskeleton actively reorganized receptor clusters. These results suggest 
that ligand mobility is an important parameter for regulating B cell signaling.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.043 
PMCID: PMC3907214
PMID: 24411234  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Biophys J. 2014 Jan 7;106(1):16-25. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.041.

A simple force-motion relation for migrating cells revealed by multipole analysis
of traction stress.

Tanimoto H(1), Sano M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic
address: thirokazu@daisy.phys.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Physics, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

For biophysical understanding of cell motility, the relationship between
mechanical force and cell migration must be uncovered, but it remains elusive.
Since cells migrate at small scale in dissipative circumstances, the inertia
force is negligible and all forces should cancel out. This implies that one must 
quantify the spatial pattern of the force instead of just the summation to
elucidate the force-motion relation. Here, we introduced multipole analysis to
quantify the traction stress dynamics of migrating cells. We measured the
traction stress of Dictyostelium discoideum cells and investigated the lowest two
moments, the force dipole and quadrupole moments, which reflect rotational and
front-rear asymmetries of the stress field. We derived a simple force-motion
relation in which cells migrate along the force dipole axis with a direction
determined by the force quadrupole. Furthermore, as a complementary approach, we 
also investigated fine structures in the stress field that show front-rear
asymmetric kinetics consistent with the multipole analysis. The tight
force-motion relation enables us to predict cell migration only from the traction
stress patterns.

Copyright © 2014 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2013.10.041 
PMCID: PMC3907257
PMID: 24411233  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):016102. doi: 10.1063/1.4858434.

Note: local thermal conductivities from boundary driven non-equilibrium molecular
dynamics simulations.

Bresme F(1), Armstrong J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Chemical Physics Section, Imperial College London,
London SW7 2AZ, United Kingdom.

We report non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations of heat transport in
models of molecular fluids. We show that the "local" thermal conductivities
obtained from non-equilibrium molecular dynamics simulations agree within
numerical accuracy with equilibrium Green-Kubo computations. Our results support 
the local equilibrium hypothesis for transport properties. We show how to use the
local dependence of the thermal gradients to quantify the thermal conductivity of
molecular fluids for a wide range of thermodynamic states using a single
simulation.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4858434 
PMID: 24410242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014904. doi: 10.1063/1.4849135.

Nanoparticles at liquid interfaces: rotational dynamics and angular locking.

Razavi S(1), Kretzschmar I(1), Koplik J(2), Colosqui CE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, City College of City University of New
York, New York, New York 10031, USA.
(2)Department of Physics and The Benjamin Levich Institute for Physico-chemical
Hydrodynamics, City College of City University of New York, New York, New York
10031, USA.
(3)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, New
York 11794, USA.

Nanoparticles with different surface morphologies that straddle the interface
between two immiscible liquids are studied via molecular dynamics simulations.
The methodology employed allows us to compute the interfacial free energy at
different angular orientations of the nanoparticle. Due to their atomistic
nature, the studied nanoparticles present both microscale and macroscale
geometrical features and cannot be accurately modeled as a perfectly smooth body 
(e.g., spheres and cylinders). Under certain physical conditions, microscale
features can produce free energy barriers that are much larger than the thermal
energy of the surrounding media. The presence of these energy barriers can
effectively "lock" the particle at specific angular orientations with respect to 
the liquid-liquid interface. This work provides new insights on the rotational
dynamics of Brownian particles at liquid interfaces and suggests possible
strategies to exploit the effects of microscale features with given geometric
characteristics.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4849135 
PMID: 24410239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014704. doi: 10.1063/1.4851456.

Size asymmetric hard spheres as a convenient model for the capacitance of the
electrical double layer of an ionic liquid.

Lamperski S(1), Sosnowska J(1), Bhuiyan LB(2), Henderson D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physical Chemistry, Adam Mickiewicz University of Poznań,
Umultowska 89b, 61-614 Poznań, Poland.
(2)Laboratory of Theoretical Physics, Department of Physics, University of Puerto
Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00931-3343, USA.
(3)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Brigham Young University, Provo,
Utah 84602-5700, USA.

Even though ionic liquids are composed of nonspherical ions, it is shown here
that the general features of the capacitance of an electrical double layer can be
obtained using a charged hard sphere model. We have shown in our earlier studies 
that at high electrolyte concentrations or large magnitudes of the electrode
charge density the fact that the ions have a finite size, and are not point ions,
cause the capacitance near the potential of zero charge to increase and change
from a minimum to a maximum as the ionic concentration is increased and to
decrease as the magnitude of the electrode charge density increases. Here, we
show that the asymmetry of the capacitance of an ionic liquid can be explained
qualitatively by using spherical ions of different size without attempting to
introduce the ionic shape in a detailed manner. This means that the general
features of the capacitance of the double layer of an ionic liquid can be studied
without using a complex model, although the study of the density or charge
profiles of an ionic fluid would require one. However, this is often unnecessary 
in the analysis of many experiments.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4851456 
PMID: 24410234 


82. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014501. doi: 10.1063/1.4853775.

Salting out the polar polymorph: analysis by alchemical solvent transformation.

Duff N(1), Dahal YR(2), Schmit JD(2), Peters B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, North Carolina 27695, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Kansas State University, Manhattan, Kansas 66506, USA.
(3)Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Santa Barbara,
California 93106, USA.

We computationally examine how adding NaCl to an aqueous solution with α- and
γ-glycine nuclei alters the structure and interfacial energy of the nuclei. The
polar γ-glycine nucleus in pure aqueous solution develops a melted layer of
amorphous glycine around the nucleus. When NaCl is added, a double layer is
formed that stabilizes the polar glycine polymorph and eliminates the surface
melted layer. In contrast, the non-polar α-glycine nucleus is largely unaffected 
by the addition of NaCl. To quantify the stabilizing effect of NaCl on γ-glycine 
nuclei, we alchemically transform the aqueous glycine solution into a brine
solution of glycine. The alchemical transformation is performed both with and
without a nucleus in solution and for nuclei of α-glycine and γ-glycine
polymorphs. The calculations show that adding 80 mg/ml NaCl reduces the
interfacial free energy of a γ-glycine nucleus by 7.7 mJ/m(2) and increases the
interfacial free energy of an α-glycine nucleus by 3.1 mJ/m(2). Both results are 
consistent with experimental reports on nucleation rates which suggest: J(α,
brine) < J(γ, brine) < J(α, water). For γ-glycine nuclei, Debye-Hückel theory
qualitatively, but not quantitatively, captures the effect of salt addition. Only
the alchemical solvent transformation approach can predict the results for both
polar and non-polar polymorphs. The results suggest a general "salting out"
strategy for obtaining polar polymorphs and also a general approach to
computationally estimate the effects of solvent additives on interfacial free
energies for nucleation.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4853775 
PMID: 24410227  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014304. doi: 10.1063/1.4856115.

A study of the bending motion in tetratomic molecules by the algebraic operator
expansion method.

Larese D(1), Caprio MA(2), Pérez-Bernal F(3), Iachello F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8107,
USA.
(2)Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana
46556-5670, USA.
(3)Depto. de Física Aplicada, Unidad Asociada CSIC-IEM, Facultad de CC.
Experimentales, Universidad de Huelva, Huelva 21071, Spain.
(4)Center for Theoretical Physics, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
06520-8120, USA.

We study the bending motion in the tetratomic molecules C2H2 (X̃ (1)Σg (+)), C2H2
(Ã (1)Au) trans-S1, C2H2 (Ã (1)A2) cis-S1, and X̃ (1)A1 H2CO. We show that the
algebraic operator expansion method with only linear terms comprised of the basic
operators is able to describe the main features of the level energies in these
molecules in terms of two (linear) or three (trans-bent, cis-bent, and branched) 
parameters. By including quadratic terms, the rms deviation in comparison with
experiment goes down to typically ∼10 cm(-1) over the entire range of energy
0-6000 cm(-1). We determine the parameters by fitting the available data, and
from these parameters we construct the algebraic potential functions. Our results
are of particular interest in high-energy regions where spectra are very
congested and conventional methods, force-field expansions or Dunham-expansions
plus perturbations, are difficult to apply.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4856115 
PMID: 24410226 


84. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014104. doi: 10.1063/1.4851075.

Quantum Markovian master equation for scattering from surfaces.

Li H(1), Shao J(1), Azuri A(2), Pollak E(2), Alicki R(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Chemistry, Beijing Normal University, Beijing 100875, China.
(2)Chemical Physics Department, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Rehovoth,
Israel.

We propose a semi-phenomenological Markovian Master equation for describing the
quantum dynamics of atom-surface scattering. It embodies the Lindblad-like
structure and can describe both damping and pumping of energy between the system 
and the bath. It preserves positivity and correctly accounts for the vanishing of
the interaction of the particle with the surface when the particle is distant
from the surface. As a numerical test, we apply it to a model of an Ar atom
scattered from a LiF surface, allowing for interaction only in the vertical
direction. At low temperatures, we find that the quantum mechanical average
energy loss is smaller than the classical energy loss. The numerical results
obtained from the space dependent friction master equation are compared with
numerical simulations for a discretized bath, using the multi-configurational
time dependent Hartree methodology. The agreement between the two simulations is 
quantitative.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4851075 
PMID: 24410218 


85. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014103. doi: 10.1063/1.4855675.

Infinite swapping in curved spaces.

Curotto E(1), Mella M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Physics, Arcadia University, Glenside,
Pennsylvania 19038-3295, USA.
(2)Dipartimento di Scienza ed Alta Tecnologia, via Valleggio 11, Università degli
studi dell'Insubria, 22100 Como, Italy.

We develop an extension of the infinite swapping and partial infinite swapping
techniques [N. Plattner, J. D. Doll, P. Dupuis, H. Wang, Y. Liu, and J. E.
Gubernatis, J. Chem. Phys. 135, 134111 (2011)] to curved spaces. Furthermore, we 
test the performance of infinite swapping and partial infinite swapping in a
series of flat spaces characterized by the same potential energy surface model.
We develop a second order variational algorithm for general curved spaces without
the extended Lagrangian formalism to include holonomic constraints. We test the
new methods by carrying out NVT classical ensemble simulations on a set of
multidimensional toroids mapped by stereographic projections and characterized by
a potential energy surface built from a linear combination of decoupled double
wells shaped purposely to create rare events over a range of temperatures.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4855675 
PMID: 24410217 


86. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):014101. doi: 10.1063/1.4855275.

How accurate is the strongly orthogonal geminal theory in predicting excitation
energies? Comparison of the extended random phase approximation and the linear
response theory approaches.

Pernal K(1), Chatterjee K(2), Kowalski PH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics, Technical University of Lodz, ul. Wolczanska 219, 90-924
Lodz, Poland.
(2)Faculty of Chemistry, Technical University of Lodz, ul. Zeromskiego 116,
90-924 Lodz, Poland.

Erratum in
    J Chem Phys. 2014 May 14;140(18):189901.

Performance of the antisymmetrized product of strongly orthogonal geminal (APSG) 
ansatz in describing ground states of molecules has been extensively explored in 
the recent years. Not much is known, however, about possibilities of obtaining
excitation energies from methods that would rely on the APSG ansatz. In the paper
we investigate the recently proposed extended random phase approximations, ERPA
and ERPA2, that employ APSG reduced density matrices. We also propose a
time-dependent linear response APSG method (TD-APSG). Its relation to the
recently proposed phase including natural orbital theory is elucidated. The
methods are applied to Li2, BH, H2O, and CH2O molecules at equilibrium geometries
and in the dissociating limits. It is shown that ERPA2 and TD-APSG perform better
in describing double excitations than ERPA due to inclusion of the so-called
diagonal double elements. Analysis of the potential energy curves of Li2, BH, and
H2O reveals that ERPA2 and TD-APSG describe correctly excitation energies of
dissociating molecules if orbitals involved in breaking bonds are involved. For
single excitations of molecules at equilibrium geometries the accuracy of the
APSG-based methods approaches that of the time-dependent Hartree-Fock method with
the increase of the system size. A possibility of improving the accuracy of the
TD-APSG method for single excitations by splitting the electron-electron
interaction operator into the long- and short-range terms and employing density
functionals to treat the latter is presented.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4855275 
PMID: 24410215 


87. J Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;140(1):010901. doi: 10.1063/1.4853735.

Perspective: tipping the scales: search for drifting constants from molecular
spectra.

Jansen P(1), Bethlem HL(1), Ubachs W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, LaserLaB, VU University Amsterdam, De
Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Transitions in atoms and molecules provide an ideal test ground for constraining 
or detecting a possible variation of the fundamental constants of nature. In this
perspective, we review molecular species that are of specific interest in the
search for a drifting proton-to-electron mass ratio μ. In particular, we outline 
the procedures that are used to calculate the sensitivity coefficients for
transitions in these molecules and discuss current searches. These methods have
led to a rate of change in μ bounded to 6 × 10(-14)/yr from a laboratory
experiment performed in the present epoch. On a cosmological time scale, the
variation is limited to ∣Δμ∕μ∣ < 10(-5) for look-back times of 10-12× 10(9) years
and to ∣Δμ∕μ∣ < 10(-7) for look-back times of 7× 10(9) years. The last result,
obtained from high-redshift observation of methanol, translates into
μ̇/μ=(1.4±1.4)×10(-17)/yr if a linear rate of change is assumed.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4853735 
PMID: 24410211 


88. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 7;9(1):e84478. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084478. eCollection 
2014.

Visualizing cell state transition using Raman spectroscopy.

Ichimura T(1), Chiu LD(2), Fujita K(2), Kawata S(3), Watanabe TM(1), Yanagida
T(4), Fujita H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Quantitative Biology Center, Riken, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Applied Physics, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Applied Physics, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan ;
Nanophotonics Laboratory, Riken, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(4)Quantitative Biology Center, Riken, Suita, Osaka, Japan ; Immunology Frontier 
Research Center, Osaka University, Suita, Osaka, Japan.

System level understanding of the cell requires detailed description of the cell 
state, which is often characterized by the expression levels of proteins.
However, understanding the cell state requires comprehensive information of the
cell, which is usually obtained from a large number of cells and their
disruption. In this study, we used Raman spectroscopy, which can report changes
in the cell state without introducing any label, as a non-invasive method with
single cell capability. Significant differences in Raman spectra were observed at
the levels of both the cytosol and nucleus in different cell-lines from mouse,
indicating that Raman spectra reflect differences in the cell state. Difference
in cell state was observed before and after the induction of differentiation in
neuroblastoma and adipocytes, showing that Raman spectra can detect subtle
changes in the cell state. Cell state transitions during embryonic stem cell
(ESC) differentiation were visualized when Raman spectroscopy was coupled with
principal component analysis (PCA), which showed gradual transition in the cell
states during differentiation. Detailed analysis showed that the diversity
between cells are large in undifferentiated ESC and in mesenchymal stem cells
compared with terminally differentiated cells, implying that the cell state in
stem cells stochastically fluctuates during the self-renewal process. The present
study strongly indicates that Raman spectral morphology, in combination with PCA,
can be used to establish cells' fingerprints, which can be useful for
distinguishing and identifying different cellular states.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084478 
PMCID: PMC3883674
PMID: 24409302  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Nanomedicine. 2014 Oct;10(7):1549-58. doi: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.12.008. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

The orientation of the neuronal growth process can be directed via magnetic
nanoparticles under an applied magnetic field.

Riggio C(1), Calatayud MP(2), Giannaccini M(3), Sanz B(4), Torres TE(5),
Fernández-Pacheco R(6), Ripoli A(7), Ibarra MR(8), Dente L(9), Cuschieri A(10),
Goya GF(11), Raffa V(12).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Life Science, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy. Electronic
address: c.riggio@sssup.it.
(2)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain; Departamento de Física de la Materia Condensada,
Pedro Cerbuna, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: pilarcs@unizar.es.
(3)Institute of Life Science, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy; Department
of Biology, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address:
m.giannaccini@sssup.it.
(4)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: beasanz@unizar.es.
(5)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain; Departamento de Física de la Materia Condensada,
Pedro Cerbuna, Zaragoza, Spain; Laboratorio de Microscopias Avanzadas (LMA),
Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: 
teo@unizar.es.
(6)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain; Laboratorio de Microscopias Avanzadas (LMA),
Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: 
pacheco@unizar.es.
(7)Fondazione Toscana "Gabriele Monasterio", Via Giuseppe Moruzzi, Pisa, Italy.
Electronic address: andrearipoli@ftgm.it.
(8)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain; Departamento de Física de la Materia Condensada,
Pedro Cerbuna, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: ibarra@unizar.es.
(9)Department of Biology, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address:
ldente@biologia.unipi.it.
(10)Institute of Life Science, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy.
Electronic address: a.cuschieri@sssup.it.
(11)Instituto de Nanociencia de Aragón, Universidad de Zaragoza, Mariano
Esquillor, Zaragoza, Spain; Departamento de Física de la Materia Condensada,
Pedro Cerbuna, Zaragoza, Spain. Electronic address: goya@unizar.es.
(12)Institute of Life Science, Scuola Superiore Sant'Anna, Pisa, Italy;
Department of Biology, Università di Pisa, Pisa, Italy. Electronic address:
vraffa@biologia.unipi.it.

There is a growing body of evidence indicating the importance of physical stimuli
for neuronal growth and development. Specifically, results from published
experimental studies indicate that forces, when carefully controlled, can
modulate neuronal regeneration. Here, we validate a non-invasive approach for
physical guidance of nerve regeneration based on the synergic use of magnetic
nanoparticles (MNPs) and magnetic fields (Ms). The concept is that the
application of a tensile force to a neuronal cell can stimulate neurite
initiation or axon elongation in the desired direction, the MNPs being used to
generate this tensile force under the effect of a static external magnetic field 
providing the required directional orientation. In a neuron-like cell line, we
have confirmed that MNPs direct the neurite outgrowth preferentially along the
direction imposed by an external magnetic field, by inducing a net angle
displacement (about 30°) of neurite direction. From the clinical editor: This
study validates that non-invasive approaches for physical guidance of nerve
regeneration based on the synergic use of magnetic nanoparticles and magnetic
fields are possible. The hypothesis was confirmed by observing preferential
neurite outgrowth in a cell culture system along the direction imposed by an
external magnetic field.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nano.2013.12.008 
PMID: 24407149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2014 Aug;1841(8):1130-45. doi:
10.1016/j.bbalip.2013.12.016. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

The challenges of understanding glycolipid functions: An open outlook based on
molecular simulations.

Manna M(1), Róg T(1), Vattulainen I(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Tampere University of Technology, POB 692, FI-33101
Tampere, Finland.
(2)Department of Physics, Tampere University of Technology, POB 692, FI-33101
Tampere, Finland; MEMPHYS, Center for Biomembrane Physics, University of Southern
Denmark, Odense, Denmark. Electronic address: Ilpo.Vattulainen@tut.fi.

Glycolipids are the most complex lipid type in cell membranes, characterized by a
great diversity of different structures and functions. The underlying
atomistic/molecular interactions and mechanisms associated with these functions
are not well understood. Here we discuss how atomistic and molecular simulations 
can be used to shed light on the role of glycolipids in membrane structure and
dynamics, receptor function, and other phenomena related to emergence of diseases
such as Parkinson's. The cases we discuss highlight the challenge to understand
how glycolipids function in cell membranes, and the significant added value that 
one would gain by bridging molecular simulations with experiments. This article
is part of a Special Issue entitled Tools to study lipid functions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2013.12.016 
PMID: 24406903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Neurosci Res. 2014 Mar;80:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.neures.2013.12.007. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

Circadian rhythm modulates long-term potentiation induced at CA1 in rat
hippocampal slices.

Nakatsuka H(1), Natsume K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain Science and Engineering, Graduate School of Life Science
and Systems Engineering, Kyusyu Institute of Technology, 2-4 Hibikino,
Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyusyu, Fukuoka 808-0196, Japan.
(2)Department of Brain Science and Engineering, Graduate School of Life Science
and Systems Engineering, Kyusyu Institute of Technology, 2-4 Hibikino,
Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyusyu, Fukuoka 808-0196, Japan; Research Center for
Bio-microsensing Technology, Kyusyu Institute of Technology, 2-4 Hibikino,
Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyusyu, Fukuoka 808-0196, Japan; Biomedical Informatics R&D
Center, Kyusyu Institute of Technology, 2-4 Hibikino, Wakamatsu-ku, Kitakyusyu,
Fukuoka 808-0196, Japan. Electronic address: natume@brain.kyutech.ac.jp.

Circadian rhythm affects neuronal plasticity. Consistent with this, some forms of
synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) are modulated by the light/dark cycle (LD
cycle). For example, this type of modulation is observed in hippocampal slices.
In rodents, which are nocturnal, LTP is usually facilitated in the dark phase,
but the rat hippocampal CA1 is an exception. The reason why LTP in the dark phase
is suppressed in CA1 remains unknown. Previously, LTP was induced with
high-frequency stimulation. In this study, we found that in the dark phase,
theta-burst stimulation-induced LTP is indeed facilitated in CA1, similar to
other regions in the rodent brain. Population excitatory postsynaptic potentials 
(pEPSP)-LTP and population spikes (PS)-LTP were recorded at CA1. The magnitude of
PS-LTP in dark-phase slices was significantly larger than in light-phase slices, 
while that of pEPSP-LTP was unchanged. Using antidromic-orthodromic stimulation, 
we found that recurrent inhibition is suppressed in the dark phase. Local
gabazine-application to stratum pyramidale in light-phase slices mimicked this
disinhibition and facilitated LTP in dark-phase slices. These results suggest
that the disinhibition of a GABAA recurrent inhibitory network can be induced in 
the dark phase, thereby facilitating LTP.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd and the Japan Neuroscience Society. All
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neures.2013.12.007 
PMID: 24406747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Mol Biol. 2014 Apr 3;426(7):1554-67. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2013.12.027. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Evidence against the "Y-T coupling" mechanism of activation in the response
regulator NtrC.

Villali J(1), Pontiggia F(1), Clarkson MW(1), Hagan MF(2), Kern D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Waltham, MA
02452, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02452, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Waltham, MA
02452, USA. Electronic address: dkern@brandeis.edu.

The dominant theory on the mechanism of response regulators activation in
two-component bacterial signaling systems is the "Y-T coupling" mechanism,
wherein the χ1 rotameric state of a highly conserved aromatic residue correlates 
with the activation of the protein via structural rearrangements coupled to a
conserved tyrosine. In this paper, we present evidence that, in the receiver
domain of the response regulator nitrogen regulatory protein C (NtrC(R)), the
interconversion of this tyrosine (Y101) between its rotameric states is actually 
faster than the rate of inactive/active conversion and is not correlated to the
activation process. Data gathered from NMR relaxation dispersion experiments show
that a subset of residues surrounding the conserved tyrosine sense a process that
is occurring at a faster rate than the inactive/active conformational transition.
We show that this process is related to χ1 rotamer exchange of Y101 and that
mutation of this aromatic residue to a leucine eliminated this second faster
process without affecting activation. Computational simulations of NtrC(R) in its
active conformation further demonstrate that the rotameric state of Y101 is
uncorrelated with the global conformational transition during activation.
Moreover, the tyrosine does not appear to be involved in the stabilization of the
active form upon phosphorylation and is not essential in propagating the signal
downstream for ATPase activity of the central domain. Our data provide
experimental evidence against the generally accepted "Y-T coupling" mechanism of 
activation in NtrC(R).

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2013.12.027 
PMCID: PMC4384162
PMID: 24406745  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Int J Pharm. 2014 Mar 10;463(1):62-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.12.054. Epub
2014 Jan 7.

Comparative pharmaceutical evaluation of brand and generic clobetasone butyrate
ointments.

Yamamoto Y(1), Fukami T(2), Koide T(3), Onuki Y(4), Suzuki T(2), Metori K(2),
Katori N(3), Hiyama Y(3), Tomono K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Teikyo Heisei University, Japan.
Electronic address: y.yamamoto@thu.ac.jp.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Nihon University, Japan.
(3)Division of Drugs, National Institute of Health Sciences, Japan.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutics, Hoshi University, Japan.

In the present study, we performed comprehensive pharmaceutical evaluation among 
an original clobetasone butyrate (CLB) ointment product and three generic
products. Although spherocrystal images were observed under a polarizing
microscope for only Kindavate®, the original product, distribution of active and 
inactive ingredients was chemically equivalent between the original and generic
medicine by the attenuated total reflection infrared spectroscopy. These results 
suggest that the spherocrystals observed in Kindavate® are composed of
hydrocarbon. On GC/MS, it was revealed that linear alkanes having 25-27 carbon
atoms are densely present in Sun White®, the base used in Kindavate®. On the
other hand, linear alkanes having 22-31 carbon atoms were broadly distributed in 
most other white petrolatums. In the CLB ointment products, the distribution
equivalent of linear alkane to Sun White® was observed only in Kindavate®. Thus, 
the GC/MS method is extremely useful for identification of white petrolatum used 
in the ointment. A similar amount of CLB among the pharmaceutical products was
detected in the skin tissue by skin accumulation test, although there were the
differences in rheological properties and the quality of white petrolatum. The
present results will be very useful for pharmacists in selecting medicine
products that match the needs of the patient. Such pharmaceutical information
will help spread objective knowledge about products in the future, and will
contribute to the appropriate selection of medication.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.12.054 
PMID: 24406671  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Biochem Pharmacol. 2014 Mar 1;88(1):95-105. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.12.022. Epub 
2014 Jan 6.

1,4-Naphthoquinone, a pro-oxidant, suppresses immune responses via KEAP-1
glutathionylation.

Gambhir L(1), Checker R(1), Thoh M(1), Patwardhan RS(1), Sharma D(1), Kumar M(2),
Sandur SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Radiation Biology & Health Sciences Division, Bio-science Group, Mumbai,
Maharashtra, India.
(2)Solid State Physics Division, Physics Group, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre,
Trombay, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.
(3)Radiation Biology & Health Sciences Division, Bio-science Group, Mumbai,
Maharashtra, India. Electronic address: sskumar@barc.gov.in.

Low levels of oxidative stress have been shown to activate Nrf-2, an important
anti-inflammatory transcription factor, by us and also by several other
investigators. Earlier we showed that pro-oxidants protect normal lymphocytes
against radiation injury by activating Nrf-2. In the present study, we have
investigated the effect of oxidative stress on immune responses and delineated
the underlying mechanism. Hydrogen peroxide, tert-butylhydroquinone and
1,4-naphthoquinone (NQ) inhibited mitogen induced proliferation of lymphocytes.
NQ also inhibited mitogen (Concanavalin A) induced cytokine secretion by murine T
cells and lipopolysaccharide induced release of cytokines, nitric oxide and
cyclooxygenase-2 expression by macrophages. NQ modulated cellular redox by
decreasing GSH/GSSG ratio and the immunosuppressive effects of NQ were
significantly abrogated by thiol containing antioxidants and not by non-thiol
antioxidants. This redox perturbation led to activation of Nrf-2 pathway and
inhibition of NF-κB. NQ treatment increased total protein S-thiolation, induced
glutathionylation of KEAP-1 protein and decreased IKKβ levels in lymphocytes.
Molecular docking studies revealed that NQ can disrupt KEAP-1/Nrf-2 interaction
by directly blocking the binding site of Nrf-2 in the KEAP-1 protein. Further,
inhibitors of Nrf-2 and HO-1 abrogated the anti-inflammatory effects of NQ. T
cells isolated from spleen and gut associated lymphoid tissue of NQ administered 
mice also showed suppression of NF-κB activation and were hyporesponsive to
mitogenic stimulation. These results demonstrate that pro-oxidants modulate
inflammatory and immune responses via oxidative stress mediated KEAP-1
glutathionylation and IKKβ degradation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2013.12.022 
PMID: 24406247  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Biomaterials. 2014 Mar;35(9):2934-41. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.11.082.
Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Dual-modal upconversion fluorescent/X-ray imaging using ligand-free hexagonal
phase NaLuF4:Gd/Yb/Er nanorods for blood vessel visualization.

Zeng S(1), Wang H(2), Lu W(3), Yi Z(2), Rao L(2), Liu H(4), Hao J(5).

Author information: 
(1)College of Physics and Information Science and Key Laboratory of
Low-dimensional Quantum Structures and Quantum Control of the Ministry of
Education, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic address:
songjunz@hunnu.edu.cn.
(2)Faculty of Materials, Optoelectronics and Physics, Key Laboratory of
Low-dimensional Materials and Application Technology (Ministry of Education),
Xiangtan University, Xiangtan 411105, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Applied Physics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong
Kong.
(4)College of Physics and Information Science and Key Laboratory of
Low-dimensional Quantum Structures and Quantum Control of the Ministry of
Education, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(5)Department of Applied Physics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong
Kong. Electronic address: jh.hao@polyu.edu.hk.

Visualization of blood vessel of lung can improve the detection of the lung and
pulmonary vascular diseases. However, research on visualization of blood vessel
of lung using the new generation upconversion nanoprobes is still scarce. Herein,
high quality hexagonal phase NaLuF4:Gd/Yb/Er nanorods were synthesized by a
simple hydrothermal method through doping Gd(3+). Doping Gd can not only promote 
the phase transformation from cubic to hexagonal and the shape evolution from
microtube to rod-like, but also provide an additional magnetic properties for
biomedical application. The as-prepared nanorods were further converted to water 
solubility by treating with HCl for eliminating the capped oleic acid. The
ligand-free nanorods were successfully used for high-contrast upconversion
fluorescent bioimaging of HeLa cells. Moreover, the in vivo synergistic
upconversion fluorescent and X-ray imaging of nude mice were demonstrated by
subcutaneously and intravenously administrated the ligand-free nanorods. The
X-ray signals were matched well with the upconversion signal, indicating the
successfully synergistic bioimaging. The ex-vivo X-ray and upconversion
fluorescent imaging of various organs revealed that the nanorods were mainly
accumulated in liver and lung. More importantly, the blood vessel of the lung can
be readily visualized when these ligand-free nanorods are intravenously injected.
Apart from the synergistic X-ray and upconversion bioimaging, the ligand-free
nanorods can also possess excellent paramagnetic property for potential magnetic 
resonance imaging contrast agent. Our results have demonstrated the enhanced
visualization of blood vessel of lung performed by dual-modal bioimaging of X-ray
and upconversion fluorescence, revealing the great promise of these nanoprobes in
angiography imaging. Such a new technique enables the integration of the two
bioimaging techniques by combining their collective strengths and minimizing
their shortcomings.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.11.082 
PMID: 24406214  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Acta Biomater. 2014 May;10(5):2043-55. doi: 10.1016/j.actbio.2013.12.057. Epub
2014 Jan 7.

Discrimination of bladder cancer cells from normal urothelial cells with high
specificity and sensitivity: combined application of atomic force microscopy and 
modulated Raman spectroscopy.

Canetta E(1), Riches A(2), Borger E(3), Herrington S(2), Dholakia K(4), Adya
AK(5).

Author information: 
(1)School of Science, Engineering and Technology, Abertay University, Bell
Street, Dundee DD1 1HG, UK; School of Physics and Astronomy, University of St
Andrews, North Haugh, Fife KY16 9SS, UK.
(2)School of Medicine, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9TF, UK.
(3)School of Biology, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife KY16 9TF, UK.
(4)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of St Andrews, North Haugh, Fife
KY16 9SS, UK.
(5)School of Science, Engineering and Technology, Abertay University, Bell
Street, Dundee DD1 1HG, UK. Electronic address: ashok.adya@abertay.ac.uk.

Atomic force microscopy (AFM) and modulated Raman spectroscopy (MRS) were used to
discriminate between living normal human urothelial cells (SV-HUC-1) and bladder 
tumour cells (MGH-U1) with high specificity and sensitivity. MGH-U1 cells were
1.5-fold smaller, 1.7-fold thicker and 1.4-fold rougher than normal SV-HUC-1
cells. The adhesion energy was 2.6-fold higher in the MGH-U1 cells compared to
normal SV-HUC-1 cells, which possibly indicates that bladder tumour cells are
more deformable than normal cells. The elastic modulus of MGH-U1 cells was
12-fold lower than SV-HUC-1 cells, suggesting a higher elasticity of the bladder 
cancer cell membranes. The biochemical fingerprints of cancer cells displayed a
higher DNA and lipid content, probably due to an increase in the nuclear to
cytoplasm ratio. Normal cells were characterized by higher protein contents. AFM 
studies revealed a decrease in the lateral dimensions and an increase in
thickness of cancer cells compared to normal cells; these studies authenticate
the observations from MRS. Nanostructural, nanomechanical and biochemical
profiles of bladder cells provide qualitative and quantitative markers to
differentiate between normal and cancerous cells at the single cellular level.
AFM and MRS allow discrimination between adhesion energy, elasticity and Raman
spectra of SV-HUC-1 and MGH-U1 cells with high specificity (83, 98 and 95%) and
sensitivity (97, 93 and 98%). Such single-cell-level studies could have a pivotal
impact on the development of AFM-Raman combined methodologies for cancer
profiling and screening with translational significance.

Copyright © 2014 Acta Materialia Inc. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actbio.2013.12.057 
PMID: 24406196  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2014 Mar 21;445(4):717-23. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.12.132. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

PeptiSite: a structural database of peptide binding sites in 4D.

Acharya C(1), Kufareva I(1), Ilatovskiy AV(2), Abagyan R(3).

Author information: 
(1)UCSD, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA.
(2)UCSD, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA; Division of Molecular and Radiation Biophysics, Petersburg Nuclear
Physics Institute, Gatchina 188300, Russia; Research and Education Center
"Biophysics", PNPI and St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University, St.
Petersburg 195251, Russia.
(3)UCSD, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, La Jolla, CA
92093, USA. Electronic address: rabagyan@ucsd.edu.

We developed PeptiSite, a comprehensive and reliable database of biologically and
structurally characterized peptide-binding sites, in which each site is
represented by an ensemble of its complexes with protein, peptide and small
molecule partners. The unique features of the database include: (1) the ensemble 
site representation that provides a fourth dimension to the otherwise three
dimensional data, (2) comprehensive characterization of the binding site
architecture that may consist of a multimeric protein assembly with cofactors and
metal ions and (3) analysis of consensus interaction motifs within the ensembles 
and identification of conserved determinants of these interactions. Currently the
database contains 585 proteins with 650 peptide-binding sites.
http://peptisite.ucsd.edu/ link allows searching for the sites of interest and
interactive visualization of the ensembles using the ActiveICM web-browser
plugin. This structural database for protein-peptide interactions enables
understanding of structural principles of these interactions and may assist the
development of an efficient peptide docking benchmark.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.12.132 
PMCID: PMC3975830
PMID: 24406170  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Curr Biol. 2014 Jan 6;24(1):R33-R35. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.11.023.

Evolution: 'snowed' in with the enemy.

Datta MS(1), Gore J(2).

Author information: 
(1)Computational and Systems Biology Graduate Program, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Bldg. 13-2008, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
(2)Department of Physics, MIT Center for Physics of Living Systems, Computational
and Systems Biology Graduate Program, Microbiology Graduate Program,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Bldg. 13-2008,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Electronic address: gore@mit.edu.

Comment on
    Curr Biol. 2014 Jan 6;24(1):50-5.

Explaining the origins and maintenance of cooperation in nature is a key
challenge in evolutionary biology. A recent study demonstrates two novel
mechanisms through which the natural ecology of sinking ocean
aggregates--colloquially called 'marine snow' - promotes cooperation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.11.023 
PMID: 24405677  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Mar Drugs. 2014 Jan 7;12(1):176-92. doi: 10.3390/md12010176.

Stereochemistry of complex marine natural products by quantum mechanical
calculations of NMR chemical shifts: solvent and conformational effects on
okadaic acid.

Domínguez HJ(1), Crespín GD(2), Santiago-Benítez AJ(3), Gavín JA(4), Norte M(5), 
Fernández JJ(6), Daranas AH(7).

Author information: 
(1)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain. hdomrod@ull.es.
(2)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain.
guillermo.diaz@ues.edu.sv.
(3)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain.
alu0100420050@ull.edu.es.
(4)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain. jgavin@ull.es.
(5)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain. mnorte@ull.es.
(6)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain. jjfercas@ull.es.
(7)University Institute of Bio-Organic Chemistry "Antonio González" (CIBICAN),
Avda. Astrofísico Francisco Sánchez 2, La Laguna 38206, Spain. adaranas@ull.es.

Marine organisms are an increasingly important source of novel metabolites, some 
of which have already inspired or become new drugs. In addition, many of these
molecules show a high degree of novelty from a structural and/or pharmacological 
point of view. Structure determination is generally achieved by the use of a
variety of spectroscopic methods, among which NMR (nuclear magnetic resonance)
plays a major role and determination of the stereochemical relationships within
every new molecule is generally the most challenging part in structural
determination. In this communication, we have chosen okadaic acid as a model
compound to perform a computational chemistry study to predict 1H and 13C NMR
chemical shifts. The effect of two different solvents and conformation on the
ability of DFT (density functional theory) calculations to predict the correct
stereoisomer has been studied.

DOI: 10.3390/md12010176 
PMCID: PMC3917268
PMID: 24402177  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 6;9(1):e84563. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084563. eCollection 
2014.

Cascading failures in spatially-embedded random networks.

Asztalos A(1), Sreenivasan S(1), Szymanski BK(2), Korniss G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Social and Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center, Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America ; Department of Computer
Science, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, United States of
America ; Department of Physics, Applied Physics and Astronomy, Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America.
(2)Social and Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center, Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America ; Department of Computer
Science, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, United States of
America.
(3)Social and Cognitive Networks Academic Research Center, Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute, Troy, New York, United States of America ; Department of Physics,
Applied Physics and Astronomy, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York, 
United States of America.

Cascading failures constitute an important vulnerability of interconnected
systems. Here we focus on the study of such failures on networks in which the
connectivity of nodes is constrained by geographical distance. Specifically, we
use random geometric graphs as representative examples of such spatial networks, 
and study the properties of cascading failures on them in the presence of
distributed flow. The key finding of this study is that the process of cascading 
failures is non-self-averaging on spatial networks, and thus, aggregate
inferences made from analyzing an ensemble of such networks lead to incorrect
conclusions when applied to a single network, no matter how large the network is.
We demonstrate that this lack of self-averaging disappears with the introduction 
of a small fraction of long-range links into the network. We simulate the well
studied preemptive node removal strategy for cascade mitigation and show that it 
is largely ineffective in the case of spatial networks. We introduce an
altruistic strategy designed to limit the loss of network nodes in the event of a
cascade triggering failure and show that it performs better than the preemptive
strategy. Finally, we consider a real-world spatial network viz. a European power
transmission network and validate that our findings from the study of random
geometric graphs are also borne out by simulations of cascading failures on the
empirical network.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084563 
PMCID: PMC3882255
PMID: 24400101  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. ChemSusChem. 2014 Feb;7(2):442-50. doi: 10.1002/cssc.201301140. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Enhanced performance of supported HfO2 counter electrodes for redox couples used 
in dye-sensitized solar cells.

Yun S(1), Pu H, Chen J, Hagfeldt A, Ma T.

Author information: 
(1)School of Materials & Mineral Resources, Xi'an University of Architecture and 
Technology, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 710055 (PR China), Fax: (+86) 029-85535724.
alexsyun1974@aliyun.com, alexsyun_DSC@163.com.

Mesoporous-graphitic-carbon-supported HfO2 (HfO2 -MGC) nanohybrids were
synthesized by using a soft-template route. Characterization and a systematic
investigation of the catalytic properties, stability, and catalytic mechanism
were performed for HfO2 -MGC counter electrodes (CEs) in dye-sensitized solar
cells (DSSCs). The new HfO2 -MGC as a CE in DSSCs showed a surprisingly high
efficiency of 7.75 % for the triiodide/iodide redox couple and 3.69 % for the
disulfide/thiolate redox couple, greater than the Pt electrode in the
corresponding electrolyte system, which opens up a possibility for its practical 
application.

Copyright © 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/cssc.201301140 
PMID: 24399514  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Physiol Meas. 2014 Feb;35(2):139-51. doi: 10.1088/0967-3334/35/2/139. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Evaluation of postural steadiness before and after sedation: comparison of four
nonlinear and three conventional measures.

Tietäväinen A(1), Hæggström E, Mandel JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.

Sedative drugs decrease postural steadiness and increase the risk of injury from 
falls and accidents. The recovery rate is individual, making it hard to predict
the patient's steadiness and hence safe discharge time. 103 outpatients sedated
with midazolam and fentanyl were measured posturographically, before (PRE) and
after (POST) endoscopy. The ability of conventional and nonlinear sway measures
to separate the PRE and POST conditions were compared, and the area under the
receiver operating characteristics curve (AUC) was used to quantify the
significance of the separation. A nonlinear measure, fuzzy sample entropy, scored
the largest AUC (AUCFSE = 0.83, p < 0.0001). While the AUCFSE was not
significantly larger than the AUCs of conventional sway measures which offer easy
quantification of postural steadiness, nonlinear measures provide more insight
into the structure of postural control, which may help understand the effect of
sedation on postural steadiness. This study is a step toward developing a tester 
that indicates a safe discharge time.

DOI: 10.1088/0967-3334/35/2/139 
PMID: 24399195  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jan 6;14(1):868-76. doi: 10.3390/s140100868.

Stretchable and flexible high-strain sensors made using carbon nanotubes and
graphite films on natural rubber.

Tadakaluru S(1), Thongsuwan W(2), Singjai P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Materials Science Research Center, Department of Physics and Materials
Science, Faculty of Science, Chiangmai University, Chiangmai 50200, Thailand.
t.sreenivasulu87@gmail.com.
(2)Materials Science Research Center, Department of Physics and Materials
Science, Faculty of Science, Chiangmai University, Chiangmai 50200, Thailand.
wiradej.t@cmu.ac.th.
(3)Materials Science Research Center, Department of Physics and Materials
Science, Faculty of Science, Chiangmai University, Chiangmai 50200, Thailand.
pisith.s@cmu.ac.th.

Conventional metallic strain sensors are flexible, but they can sustain maximum
strains of only ~5%, so there is a need for sensors that can bear high strains
for multifunctional applications. In this study, we report stretchable and
flexible high-strain sensors that consist of entangled and randomly distributed
multiwall carbon nanotubes or graphite flakes on a natural rubber substrate.
Carbon nanotubes/graphite flakes were sandwiched in natural rubber to produce
these high-strain sensors. Using field emission scanning electron microscopy, the
morphology of the films for both the carbon nanotube and graphite sensors were
assessed under different strain conditions (0% and 400% strain). As the strain
was increased, the films fractured, resulting in an increase in the electrical
resistance of the sensor; this change was reversible. Strains of up to 246%
(graphite sensor) and 620% (carbon nanotube sensor) were measured; these values
are respectively ~50 and ~120 times greater than those of conventional metallic
strain sensors.

DOI: 10.3390/s140100868 
PMCID: PMC3926590
PMID: 24399158  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Sensors (Basel). 2014 Jan 6;14(1):795-833. doi: 10.3390/s140100795.

Underwater acoustic wireless sensor networks: advances and future trends in
physical, MAC and routing layers.

Climent S(1), Sanchez A(2), Capella JV(3), Meratnia N(4), Serrano JJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institut ITACA, Universitat Politècnica de València, Edifici 8G, València
46022, Spain. scliment@itaca.upv.es.
(2)Institut ITACA, Universitat Politècnica de València, Edifici 8G, València
46022, Spain. ansanma7@itaca.upv.es.
(3)Institut ITACA, Universitat Politècnica de València, Edifici 8G, València
46022, Spain. jcapella@disca.upv.es.
(4)Institut ITACA, Universitat Politècnica de València, Edifici 8G, València
46022, Spain. n.meratnia@utwente.nl.
(5)Institut ITACA, Universitat Politècnica de València, Edifici 8G, València
46022, Spain. jserrano@itaca.upv.es.

This survey aims to provide a comprehensive overview of the current research on
underwater wireless sensor networks, focusing on the lower layers of the
communication stack, and envisions future trends and challenges. It analyzes the 
current state-of-the-art on the physical, medium access control and routing
layers. It summarizes their security threads and surveys the currently proposed
studies. Current envisioned niches for further advances in underwater networks
research range from efficient, low-power algorithms and modulations to
intelligent, energy-aware routing and medium access control protocols.

DOI: 10.3390/s140100795 
PMCID: PMC3926587
PMID: 24399155  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2014 Dec;162(4):563-8. doi: 10.1093/rpd/nct359. Epub 2014 
Jan 6.

Adjustment of chest wall thickness of voxel phantom for numerical efficiency
calibration of lung counters.

Liye L(1), Hua L(2), Wei C(3), Yunshi X(3), Qinjian C(3), Yuan Z(3), Junli L(2).

Author information: 
(1)China Institute for Radiation Protection, Taiyuan 030006, China
liuliye@cirp.org.cn.
(2)Department of Engineering Physics, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
(3)China Institute for Radiation Protection, Taiyuan 030006, China.

A modification method was implemented to adjust the chest wall thickness of human
voxel phantom for the purpose of numerical efficiency calibration of lung
counters. This method was based on two basic mathematical morphology operations
(dilation and erosion) and combined with proper structure elements. The voxel
model of LLNL torso phantom was used as a reference to validate the modification 
process. The chest wall was mathematically modified from the starting phantom
with no overlay plate to the target with an overlay plate of 24-mm thickness. The
influences of different structure elements on detection efficiency were
discussed. When diamond or square structure elements were used, the calculated
efficiency was overestimated or underestimated by ∼40 % for 17.5-keV photons,
compared with that of target phantom. In contrast, it was shown a good agreement 
with a deviation of <3 % when the hybrid structure elements were adopted. A
similar adjustment method can be used for 3D modification of human voxel phantom 
to keep the body's anatomical geometry without distortion during the adjustment
process.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/nct359 
PMID: 24399109  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Physiol Meas. 2014 Feb;35(2):205-15. doi: 10.1088/0967-3334/35/2/205. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Effects of body mass index on gastric slow wave: a magnetogastrographic study.

Somarajan S(1), Cassilly S, Obioha C, Richards WO, Bradshaw LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. Department
of Physics & Astronomy, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA.

We measured gastric slow wave activity simultaneously with magnetogastrogram
(MGG), mucosal electromyogram (EMG) and electrogastrogram (EGG) in human subjects
with varying body mass index (BMI) before and after a meal. In order to
investigate the effect of BMI on gastric slow wave parameters, each subject's BMI
was calculated and divided into two groups: subjects with BMI ≤ 27 and BMI > 27. 
Signals were processed with Fourier spectral analysis and second-order blind
identification (SOBI) techniques. Our results showed that increased BMI does not 
affect signal characteristics such as frequency and amplitude of EMG and MGG.
Comparison of the postprandial EGG power, on the other hand, showed a
statistically significant reduction in subjects with BMI > 27 compared with BMI ≤
27. In addition to the frequency and amplitude, the use of SOBI-computed
propagation maps from MGG data allowed us to visualize the propagating slow wave 
and compute the propagation velocity in both BMI groups. No significant change in
velocity with increasing BMI or meal was observed in our study. In conclusion,
multichannel MGG provides an assessment of frequency, amplitude and propagation
velocity of the slow wave in subjects with differing BMI categories and was
observed to be independent of BMI.

DOI: 10.1088/0967-3334/35/2/205 
PMCID: PMC4012612
PMID: 24398454  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Microsc Microanal. 2014 Feb;20(1):33-41. doi: 10.1017/S1431927613013950. Epub
2014 Jan 7.

Microstructure of bentonite in iron ore green pellets.

Bhuiyan IU(1), Mouzon J(1), Schröppel B(2), Kaech A(3), Dobryden I(4), Forsmo
SP(5), Hedlund J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Technology, Luleå University of Technology, SE-971 87 Luleå, Sweden.
(2)Natural and Medical Sciences Institute (NMI), University of Tübingen, 72 770
Reutlingen, Germany.
(3)Center for Microscopy and Image Analysis, University of Zurich, CH-8006
Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Division of Physics, Luleå University of Technology, SE-971 87 Luleå, Sweden.
(5)LKAB, R&D, SE-983 81 Malmberget, Sweden.

Sodium-activated calcium bentonite is used as a binder in iron ore pellets and is
known to increase strength of both wet and dry iron ore green pellets. In this
article, the microstructure of bentonite in magnetite pellets is revealed for the
first time using scanning electron microscopy. The microstructure of bentonite in
wet and dry iron ore pellets, as well as in distilled water, was imaged by
various imaging techniques (e.g., imaging at low voltage with monochromatic and
decelerated beam or low loss backscattered electrons) and cryogenic methods
(i.e., high pressure freezing and plunge freezing in liquid ethane). In wet iron 
ore green pellets, clay tactoids (stacks of parallel primary clay platelets) were
very well dispersed and formed a voluminous network occupying the space available
between mineral particles. When the pellet was dried, bentonite was drawn to the 
contact points between the particles and formed solid bridges, which impart
strength to the solid compact.

DOI: 10.1017/S1431927613013950 
PMID: 24397939 


108. Microsc Microanal. 2014 Feb;20(1):90-8. doi: 10.1017/S1431927613013822. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Lateral resolution enhancement of vertical scanning interferometry by sub-pixel
sampling.

Arvidson RS(1), Fischer C(1), Sawyer DS(2), Scott GD(3), Natelson D(4), Lüttge
A(1).

Author information: 
(1)MARUM/Geowissenschaften FB5, Klagenfurter Straße, Universität Bremen, 28359
Bremen, Germany.
(2)Department of Earth Science MS-126, Rice University, 6100 Main Street,
Houston, TX 77005, USA.
(3)Bell Laboratories, Alcatel-Lucent, 600 Mountain Avenue, Murray Hill, NJ 07974,
USA.
(4)Department of Physics and Astronomy, Rice University, Houston, TX 77005, USA.

We apply common image enhancement principles and sub-pixel sample positioning to 
achieve a significant enhancement in the spatial resolution of a vertical
scanning interferometer. We illustrate the potential of this new method using a
standard atomic force microscope calibration grid and other materials having
motifs of known lateral and vertical dimensions. This approach combines the high 
vertical resolution of vertical scanning interferometry and its native advantages
(large field of view, rapid and nondestructive data acquisition) with important
increases in lateral resolution. This combination offers the means to address a
common challenge in microscopy: the integration of properties and processes that 
depend on, and vary as a function of observational length.

DOI: 10.1017/S1431927613013822 
PMID: 24397923 


109. Chem Commun (Camb). 2014 Feb 18;50(14):1652-4. doi: 10.1039/c3cc47885h. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

The effect of a macrocyclic constraint on electron transfer in helical peptides: 
a step towards tunable molecular wires.

Yu J(1), Horsley JR, Moore KE, Shapter JG, Abell AD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry and Physics, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA
5005, Australia. jingxian.yu@adelaide.edu.au andrew.abell@adelaide.edu.au.

Two helical peptides, one constrained by a covalent side-chain staple, exhibit
vastly different electronic properties despite adopting essentially the same
backbone conformation. High level calculations confirm that these differences are
due to the additional backbone rigidity imparted by the macrocyclic constraint.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cc47885h 
PMID: 24396865  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2014 Jan 6;369(1636):20130041. doi:
10.1098/rstb.2013.0041. Print 2014.

Oil droplets of bird eyes: microlenses acting as spectral filters.

Stavenga DG(1), Wilts BD.

Author information: 
(1)Computational Physics, Zernike Institute for Advanced Materials, University of
Groningen, , Groningen, The Netherlands.

An important component of the cone photoreceptors of bird eyes is the oil
droplets located in front of the visual-pigment-containing outer segments. The
droplets vary in colour and are transparent, clear, pale or rather intensely
yellow or red owing to various concentrations of carotenoid pigments.
Quantitative modelling of the filter characteristics using known carotenoid
pigment spectra indicates that the pigments' absorption spectra are modified by
the high concentrations that are present in the yellow and red droplets. The high
carotenoid concentrations not only cause strong spectral filtering but also a
distinctly increased refractive index at longer wavelengths. The oil droplets
therefore act as powerful spherical microlenses, effectively channelling the
spectrally filtered light into the photoreceptor's outer segment, possibly
thereby compensating for the light loss caused by the spectral filtering. The
spectral filtering causes narrow-band photoreceptor spectral sensitivities, which
are well suited for spectral discrimination, especially in birds that have
feathers coloured by carotenoid pigments.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2013.0041 
PMCID: PMC3886329
PMID: 24395968  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):972-7. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1316298111.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Engineered temperature compensation in a synthetic genetic clock.

Hussain F(1), Gupta C, Hirning AJ, Ott W, Matthews KS, Josic K, Bennett MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Rice University, Houston, TX
77005.

Synthetic biology promises to revolutionize biotechnology by providing the means 
to reengineer and reprogram cellular regulatory mechanisms. However, synthetic
gene circuits are often unreliable, as changes to environmental conditions can
fundamentally alter a circuit's behavior. One way to improve robustness is to use
intrinsic properties of transcription factors within the circuit to buffer
against intra- and extracellular variability. Here, we describe the design and
construction of a synthetic gene oscillator in Escherichia coli that maintains a 
constant period over a range of temperatures. We started with a previously
described synthetic dual-feedback oscillator with a temperature-dependent period.
Computational modeling predicted and subsequent experiments confirmed that a
single amino acid mutation to the core transcriptional repressor of the circuit
results in temperature compensation. Specifically, we used a
temperature-sensitive lactose repressor mutant that loses the ability to repress 
its target promoter at high temperatures. In the oscillator, this thermoinduction
of the repressor leads to an increase in period at high temperatures that
compensates for the decrease in period due to Arrhenius scaling of the reaction
rates. The result is a transcriptional oscillator with a nearly constant period
of 48 min for temperatures ranging from 30 °C to 41 °C. In contrast, in the
absence of the mutation the period of the oscillator drops from 60 to 30 min over
the same temperature range. This work demonstrates that synthetic gene circuits
can be engineered to be robust to extracellular conditions through protein-level 
modifications.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1316298111 
PMCID: PMC3903251
PMID: 24395809  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):1078-83. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1322725111. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Probing nanoparticle translocation across the permeable endothelium in
experimental atherosclerosis.

Kim Y(1), Lobatto ME, Kawahara T, Lee Chung B, Mieszawska AJ, Sanchez-Gaytan BL, 
Fay F, Senders ML, Calcagno C, Becraft J, Tun Saung M, Gordon RE, Stroes ES, Ma
M, Farokhzad OC, Fayad ZA, Mulder WJ, Langer R.

Author information: 
(1)The George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering, Institute for
Electronics and Nanotechnology, Parker H. Petit Institute for Bioengineering and 
Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332.

Therapeutic and diagnostic nanomaterials are being intensely studied for several 
diseases, including cancer and atherosclerosis. However, the exact mechanism by
which nanomedicines accumulate at targeted sites remains a topic of
investigation, especially in the context of atherosclerotic disease. Models to
accurately predict transvascular permeation of nanomedicines are needed to aid in
design optimization. Here we show that an endothelialized microchip with
controllable permeability can be used to probe nanoparticle translocation across 
an endothelial cell layer. To validate our in vitro model, we studied
nanoparticle translocation in an in vivo rabbit model of atherosclerosis using a 
variety of preclinical and clinical imaging methods. Our results reveal that the 
translocation of lipid-polymer hybrid nanoparticles across the atherosclerotic
endothelium is dependent on microvascular permeability. These results were
mimicked with our microfluidic chip, demonstrating the potential utility of the
model system.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1322725111 
PMCID: PMC3903216
PMID: 24395808  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):1162-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1315624111. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

High-resolution lesion-mapping strategy links a hot spot in rat insular cortex
with impaired expression of taste aversion learning.

Schier LA(1), Hashimoto K, Bales MB, Blonde GD, Spector AC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Program in Neuroscience, Florida State
University, Tallahassee, FL 32306.

Gustatory cortex (GC), an assemblage of taste-responsive neurons in insular
cortex, is widely regarded as integral to conditioned taste aversion (CTA)
retention, a link that has been primarily established using lesion approaches in 
rats. In contrast to this prevailing view, we found that even the most complete
bilateral damage to GC produced by ibotenic acid was insufficient to disrupt
postsurgical expression of a presurgical CTA; nor were such lesions sufficient to
disrupt postsurgical acquisition and initial expression of a second CTA. However,
some rats with lesions were significantly impaired on these tests. Further
examination of all conditioned rats with lesions, regardless of the lesion
topography, revealed a significant positive association between damage in the
posterior portion of GC and especially within adjacent posterior regions of
insular cortex. Accordingly, we developed a high-resolution lesion-mapping
program that permitted the overlay of the individual lesion maps from rats with
CTA impairments to produce a groupwise aggregate lesion map. Comparison of this
map with one derived from the unimpaired counterparts indicated a specific lesion
"hot spot" associated with CTA deficits that included the most posterior end of
GC and overlying granular layer and encompassed an area provisionally referred to
in the literature as visceral cortex. Thus, the detailed mapping of the lesion in
behaviorally defined subgroups of rats allowed us to exploit the variability in
performance to uncloak an important potential component of the functional
topography of insular cortex; such an approach could have general applicability
to other brain structure-function endeavors as well.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1315624111 
PMCID: PMC3903191
PMID: 24395785  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):1037-42. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1313285111. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Genetic drift opposes mutualism during spatial population expansion.

Müller MJ(1), Neugeboren BI, Nelson DR, Murray AW.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Arts and Sciences Center for Systems Biology, Department of
Physics, and Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, MA 02138.

Mutualistic interactions benefit both partners, promoting coexistence and genetic
diversity. Spatial structure can promote cooperation, but spatial expansions may 
also make it hard for mutualistic partners to stay together, because genetic
drift at the expansion front creates regions of low genetic and species
diversity. To explore the antagonism between mutualism and genetic drift, we grew
cross-feeding strains of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae on agar
surfaces as a model for mutualists undergoing spatial expansions. By supplying
varying amounts of the exchanged nutrients, we tuned strength and symmetry of the
mutualistic interaction. Strong mutualism suppresses genetic demixing during
spatial expansions and thereby maintains diversity, but weak or asymmetric
mutualism is overwhelmed by genetic drift even when mutualism is still
beneficial, slowing growth and reducing diversity. Theoretical modeling using
experimentally measured parameters predicts the size of demixed regions and how
strong mutualism must be to survive a spatial expansion.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1313285111 
PMCID: PMC3903240
PMID: 24395776  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):1020-5. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1314337111. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Species interactions and the structure of complex communication networks.

Tobias JA(1), Planqué R, Cram DL, Seddon N.

Author information: 
(1)Edward Grey Institute, Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1
3PS, United Kingdom.

A universal challenge faced by animal species is the need to communicate
effectively against a backdrop of heterospecific signals. It is often assumed
that this need results in signal divergence to minimize interference among
community members, yet previous support for this idea is mixed, and few studies
have tested the opposing hypothesis that interactions among competing species
promote widespread convergence in signaling regimes. Using a null model approach 
to analyze acoustic signaling in 307 species of Amazonian birds, we show that
closely related lineages signal together in time and space and that acoustic
signals given in temporal or spatial proximity are more similar in design than
expected by chance. These results challenge the view that multispecies choruses
are structured by temporal, spatial, or acoustic partitioning and instead suggest
that social communication between competing species can fundamentally organize
signaling assemblages, leading to the opposite pattern of clustering in signals
and signaling behavior.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1314337111 
PMCID: PMC3903186
PMID: 24395769  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 21;111(3):912-7. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1321999111.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Attosecond vacuum UV coherent control of molecular dynamics.

Ranitovic P(1), Hogle CW, Rivière P, Palacios A, Tong XM, Toshima N,
González-Castrillo A, Martin L, Martín F, Murnane MM, Kapteyn H.

Author information: 
(1)JILA and Department of Physics, University of Colorado and National Institute 
of Standards and Technology, Boulder, CO 80309.

High harmonic light sources make it possible to access attosecond timescales,
thus opening up the prospect of manipulating electronic wave packets for steering
molecular dynamics. However, two decades after the birth of attosecond physics,
the concept of attosecond chemistry has not yet been realized; this is because
excitation and manipulation of molecular orbitals requires precisely controlled
attosecond waveforms in the deep UV, which have not yet been synthesized. Here,
we present a unique approach using attosecond vacuum UV pulse-trains to
coherently excite and control the outcome of a simple chemical reaction in a
deuterium molecule in a non-Born-Oppenheimer regime. By controlling the
interfering pathways of electron wave packets in the excited neutral and singly
ionized molecule, we unambiguously show that we can switch the excited electronic
state on attosecond timescales, coherently guide the nuclear wave packets to
dictate the way a neutral molecule vibrates, and steer and manipulate the
ionization and dissociation channels. Furthermore, through advanced theory, we
succeed in rigorously modeling multiscale electron and nuclear quantum control in
a molecule. The observed richness and complexity of the dynamics, even in this
very simplest of molecules, is both remarkable and daunting, and presents
intriguing new possibilities for bridging the gap between attosecond physics and 
attochemistry.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321999111 
PMCID: PMC3903185
PMID: 24395768 


117. J Comput Chem. 2014 Mar 15;35(7):586-94. doi: 10.1002/jcc.23526. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Effect of substitutionally boron-doped single-walled semiconducting zigzag carbon
nanotubes on ammonia adsorption.

Vikramaditya T(1), Sumithra K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Birla Institute of Technology and Science (BITS)
Pilani, Hyderabad Campus, Hyderabad, 500078, Andhra Pradesh, India.

We investigate the binding of ammonia on intrinsic and substitutionally doped
semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) on the side walls using
density functional calculations. Ammonia is found to be weakly physisorbed on
intrinsic semiconducting nanotubes while on substitutional doping with boron its 
affinity is enhanced considerably reflected with increase in binding energies and
charge transfer. This is attributed to the strong chemical interaction between
electron rich nitrogen of ammonia and electron deficient boron of the doped
SWCNT. On doping, the density of states are changed compared to the intrinsic
case and additional levels are formed near the Fermi level leading to overlap of 
levels with that of ammonia indicating charge transfer. The doped SWCNTs thus are
expected to be a potential candidate for detecting ammonia.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23526 
PMID: 24395720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Comput Chem. 2014 Mar 5;35(6):488-94. doi: 10.1002/jcc.23523. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

A QM/MM study on the reaction pathway leading to 2-aceto-2-hydroxybutyrate in the
catalytic cycle of AHAS.

Sánchez L(1), Jaña GA, Delgado EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Computational Biological Chemistry Group, Faculty of Chemical Sciences,
Universidad de Concepción, Concepción.

The reaction between the intermediate 2-hydroxyethyl-thiamin diphosphate
(HEThDP(-) ) and 2-ketobutyrate, in the third step of the catalytic cycle of
acetodydroxy acid synthase, is addressed from a theoretical point of view by
means of hybrid quantum/molecular mechanical calculations. The QM region includes
one molecule of 2-ketobutyrate, the HEThDP(-) intermediate, and the residues Arg 
380 y Glu 139; whereas the MM region includes the rest of the protein. The study 
includes potential energy surface scans to identify and characterize critical
points on it, transition state search and activation barrier calculations. The
results show that the reaction occurs via a two-step mechanism corresponding to
the carboligation and proton transfer in the first stage; and the product release
in the second step.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23523 
PMID: 24395707  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Biophotonics. 2014 Apr;7(3-4):210-21. doi: 10.1002/jbio.201300163. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

It's in your blood: spectral biomarker candidates for urinary bladder cancer from
automated FTIR spectroscopy.

Ollesch J(1), Heinze M, Heise HM, Behrens T, Brüning T, Gerwert K.

Author information: 
(1)Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Department of Biophysics ND04, Universitätsstraße
150, 44780 Bochum, Germany.

Blood samples of urinary bladder cancer (UBC) patients and patients with urinary 
tract infection were analysed with advanced automated high throughput Fourier
transform infrared (HT-FTIR)-spectroscopy. Thin dried film samples were
robotically prepared on multi-well titer plates (MTP) for absorbance measurements
in transmission mode. Within the absorbance, 1st and 2nd derivative spectra of
serum and two plasma preparations, discriminative patterns were identified and
validated using bioinformatic tools. The optimal spectral resolution for data
acquisition was determined. An accurate discrimination of the patient groups was 
achieved with three different independent spectral variable sets. The HT-FTIR
blood test may support future clinical diagnostics.

Copyright © 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/jbio.201300163 
PMID: 24395618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Small. 2014 Mar 26;10(6):1194-201. doi: 10.1002/smll.201302333. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Optical and electronic properties of pyrite nanocrystal thin films: the role of
ligands.

Li W(1), Dittrich T, Jäckel F, Feldmann J.

Author information: 
(1)Photonics and Optoelectronics Group, Department of Physics and Center for
NanoSciences, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Amalienstr. 54, 80799,
Munich, Germany; Present address: Department of Physics and Stephenson Institute 
for Renewable Energy, University of Liverpool, Chadwick Building, Peach Street,
Liverpool, L69 7ZF, United Kingdom.

Pyrite nanocrystals are currently considered as a promising material for large
scale photovoltaic applications due to their non-toxicity and large abundance.
While scalable synthetic routes for phase-pure and shape controlled colloidal
pyrite nanocrystals have been reported, their use in solar cells has been
hampered by the detrimental effects of their surface defects. Here, we report a
systematic study of optical and electronic properties of pyrite nanocrystal thin 
films employing a series of different ligands varying both the anchor and
bridging group. The effect of the ligands on the optical and electronic
properties is investigated by UV-vis/NIR absorption spectroscopy, current voltage
characteristic measurements and surface photovoltage spectroscopy. We find that
the optical absorption is mainly determined by the anchor group. The absorption
onset in the thin films shifts up to ∼100 meV to the red. This is attributed to
changes in the dielectric environment induced by different anchors. The
conductivity and photoconductivity, on the other hand, are determined by combined
effects of anchor and bridging group, which modify the effective hopping barrier.
Employing different ligands, the differential conductance varies over four orders
of magnitude. The largest redshift and differential conductance are observed for 
ammonium sulfides and thiolated aromatic linkers. Pyridine and long chain amines,
on the other hand, lead to smaller modifications. Our findings highlight the
importance of surface functionalization and interparticle electronic coupling in 
the use of pyrite nanocrystals for photovoltaic devices.

© 2014 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/smll.201302333 
PMID: 24395590 


121. Sci Rep. 2014 Jan 7;4:3589. doi: 10.1038/srep03589.

From transistor to trapped-ion computers for quantum chemistry.

Yung MH(1), Casanova J(2), Mezzacapo A(3), McClean J(4), Lamata L(3),
Aspuru-Guzik A(4), Solano E(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Center for Quantum Information, Institute for Interdisciplinary Information
Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing, 100084, P. R. China [2] Department of
Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge MA, 02138, USA [3].
(2)1] Department of Physical Chemistry, University of the Basque Country UPV/EHU,
Apartado 644, 48080 Bilbao, Spain [2].
(3)Department of Physical Chemistry, University of the Basque Country UPV/EHU,
Apartado 644, 48080 Bilbao, Spain.
(4)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge
MA, 02138, USA.
(5)1] Department of Physical Chemistry, University of the Basque Country UPV/EHU,
Apartado 644, 48080 Bilbao, Spain [2] IKERBASQUE, Basque Foundation for Science, 
Alameda Urquijo 36, 48011 Bilbao, Spain.

Over the last few decades, quantum chemistry has progressed through the
development of computational methods based on modern digital computers. However, 
these methods can hardly fulfill the exponentially-growing resource requirements 
when applied to large quantum systems. As pointed out by Feynman, this
restriction is intrinsic to all computational models based on classical physics. 
Recently, the rapid advancement of trapped-ion technologies has opened new
possibilities for quantum control and quantum simulations. Here, we present an
efficient toolkit that exploits both the internal and motional degrees of freedom
of trapped ions for solving problems in quantum chemistry, including molecular
electronic structure, molecular dynamics, and vibronic coupling. We focus on
applications that go beyond the capacity of classical computers, but may be
realizable on state-of-the-art trapped-ion systems. These results allow us to
envision a new paradigm of quantum chemistry that shifts from the current
transistor to a near-future trapped-ion-based technology.

DOI: 10.1038/srep03589 
PMCID: PMC5378044
PMID: 24395054 


122. Chem Soc Rev. 2014 Apr 21;43(8):2680-700. doi: 10.1039/c3cs60353a. Epub 2014 Jan 
7.

Colloidal silicon quantum dots: from preparation to the modification of
self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) for bio-applications.

Cheng X(1), Lowe SB, Reece PJ, Gooding JJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemistry, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052,
Australia. Justin.gooding@unsw.edu.au.

Concerns over possible toxicities of conventional metal-containing quantum dots
have inspired growing research interests in colloidal silicon nanocrystals
(SiNCs), or silicon quantum dots (SiQDs). This is related to their potential
applications in a number of fields such as solar cells, optoelectronic devices
and fluorescent bio-labelling agents. The past decade has seen significant
progress in the understanding of fundamental physics and surface properties of
silicon nanocrystals. Such understanding is based on the advances in the
preparation and characterization of surface passivated colloidal silicon
nanocrystals. In this critical review, we summarize recent advances in the
methods of preparing high quality silicon nanocrystals and strategies for forming
self-assembled monolayers (SAMs), with a focus on their bio-applications. We
highlight some of the major challenges that remain, as well as lessons learnt
when working with silicon nanocrystals (239 references).

DOI: 10.1039/c3cs60353a 
PMID: 24395024  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Sci Rep. 2014 Jan 7;4:3583. doi: 10.1038/srep03583.

Towards photonic quantum simulation of ground states of frustrated Heisenberg
spin systems.

Ma XS(1), Dakić B(2), Kropatschek S(3), Naylor W(3), Chan YH(4), Gong ZX(4), Duan
LM(4), Zeilinger A(5), Walther P(6).

Author information: 
(1)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (IQOQI), Austrian
Academy of Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, A-1090 Vienna, Austria [2] Vienna Center
for Quantum Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna,
Boltzmanngasse 5, A-1090 Vienna, Austria [3] Department of Electrical
Engineering, Yale University, 15 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.
(2)1] Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria [2] Centre for Quantum Technologies, National University of Singapore, 3 
Science Drive 2, Singapore 117543 [3] Clarendon Laboratory, University of Oxford,
Parks Road, Oxford 0X1 3PU, UK.
(3)Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (IQOQI), Austrian Academy
of Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
(4)1] Department of Physics and MCTP, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI
48109, USA [2] Center for Quantum Information, IIIS, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China.
(5)1] Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information (IQOQI), Austrian
Academy of Sciences, Boltzmanngasse 3, A-1090 Vienna, Austria [2] Vienna Center
for Quantum Science and Technology, Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna,
Boltzmanngasse 5, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
(6)Faculty of Physics, University of Vienna, Boltzmanngasse 5, A-1090 Vienna,
Austria.

Photonic quantum simulators are promising candidates for providing insight into
other small- to medium-sized quantum systems. Recent experiments have shown that 
photonic quantum systems have the advantage to exploit quantum interference for
the quantum simulation of the ground state of Heisenberg spin systems. Here we
experimentally characterize this quantum interference at a tuneable beam splitter
and further investigate the measurement-induced interactions of a simulated
four-spin system by comparing the entanglement dynamics using pairwise
concurrence. We also study theoretically a four-site square lattice with
next-nearest neighbor interactions and a six-site checkerboard lattice, which
might be in reach of current technology.

DOI: 10.1038/srep03583 
PMCID: PMC3884522
PMID: 24394808 


124. Nanotechnology. 2014 Jan 31;25(4):045705. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045705.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

A measurement technique for circumventing hysteresis and conductance drift in
carbon nanotube field-effect transistors.

Tunnell A(1), Ballarotto V, Cumings J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Physical Sciences, University of Maryland, College Park, MD
20742, USA. Department of Physics, University of Maryland, College Park, MD
20742, USA.

We present a measurement protocol that effectively eliminates both the hysteresis
and the temporal drift typically observed in the channel conductance of
single-walled carbon nanotube field-effect transistors (SWNT FETs) during the
application of gate voltages. Before each resistance measurement, the gate is
first stepped through a series of alternating positive and negative voltages to
produce a neutral charge distribution within the device. This process is highly
effective at removing the hysteresis in the channel conductance, and
time-dependent measurements further demonstrate that the drain current is stable 
and single-valued, independent of the prior measurement history. The
effectiveness of this method can be understood within the Preisach hysteresis
model, which we demonstrate as a useful framework to predict the observed
results.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045705 
PMID: 24394672  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nanotechnology. 2014 Jan 31;25(4):045703. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045703.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Origin of visible and near-infrared photoluminescence from chemically etched Si
nanowires decorated with arbitrarily shaped Si nanocrystals.

Ghosh R(1), Giri PK, Imakita K, Fujii M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati,
Guwahati-781039, India.

Arrays of vertically aligned single crystalline Si nanowires (NWs) decorated with
arbitrarily shaped Si nanocrystals (NCs) have been fabricated by a silver
assisted wet chemical etching method. Scanning electron microscopy and
transmission electron microscopy are performed to measure the dimensions of the
Si NWs as well as the Si NCs. A strong broad band and tunable visible (2.2 eV) to
near-infrared (1.5 eV) photoluminescence (PL) is observed from these Si NWs at
room temperature (RT). Our studies reveal that the Si NCs are primarily
responsible for the 1.5-2.2 eV emission depending on the cross-sectional area of 
the Si NCs, while the large diameter Si/SiOx NWs yield distinct NIR PL consisting
of peaks at 1.07, 1.10 and 1.12 eV. The latter NIR peaks are attributed to TO/LO 
phonon assisted radiative recombination of free carriers condensed in the
electron-hole plasma in etched Si NWs observed at RT for the first time. Since
the shape of the Si NCs is arbitrary, an analytical model is proposed to
correlate the measured PL peak position with the cross-sectional area (A) of the 
Si NCs, and the bandgap (E(g)) of nanostructured Si varies as E(g) = E(g) (bulk) 
+ 3.58 A(-0.52). Low temperature PL studies reveal the contribution of
non-radiative defects in the evolution of PL spectra at different temperatures.
The enhancement of PL intensity and red-shift of the PL peak at low temperatures 
are explained based on the interplay of radiative and non-radiative
recombinations at the Si NCs and Si/SiO(x) interface. Time resolved PL studies
reveal bi-exponential decay with size correlated lifetimes in the range of a few 
microseconds. Our results help to resolve a long standing debate on the origin of
visible-NIR PL from Si NWs and allow quantitative analysis of PL from arbitrarily
shaped Si NCs.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045703 
PMID: 24394591  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Nanotechnology. 2014 Jan 31;25(4):045702. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045702.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Enhanced dielectric polarization and electro-responsive characteristic of
graphene oxide-wrapped titania microspheres.

Yin J(1), Shui Y, Dong Y, Zhao X.

Author information: 
(1)Smart Materials Laboratory, Department of Applied Physics, Northwestern
Polytechnical University, Xi'an 710129, People's Republic of China.

Electric field-induced particle polarization is essential to the
electro-responsive electrorheological (ER) effect of particle suspensions. In
this work, we use graphene oxide (GO) as a soft and polar coating shell to
prepare GO-wrapped titania dielectric microspheres for use as the dispersal phase
of an ER suspension. Under a DC electric field, the ER characteristic of
GO-wrapped titania microspheres dispersed in silicone oil is investigated by
rheological tests, and then compared with that of a suspension of bare titania
microspheres. The results show that the suspension of GO-wrapped titania
microspheres possesses an enhanced ER characteristic. Its field-induced shear
yield stress and storage modulus are much higher than those of the suspension of 
bare titania microspheres. The soft and polar GO shell is regarded as the origin 
of the ER enhancement. Dielectric analysis indicates that wrapping GO can enhance
the interfacial polarization and thus improve the ER characteristics of titania
microspheres. Wrapping GO onto the surface of titania microspheres can also
reduce the particle sedimentation velocity of the suspension.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045702 
PMID: 24394540 


127. J Biol Chem. 2014 Feb 14;289(7):4387-94. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.531632. Epub 2014 
Jan 6.

Single molecule analysis reveals coexistence of stable serotonin transporter
monomers and oligomers in the live cell plasma membrane.

Anderluh A(1), Klotzsch E, Reismann AW, Brameshuber M, Kudlacek O, Newman AH,
Sitte HH, Schütz GJ.

Author information: 
(1)From the Institute of Applied Physics, Vienna University of Technology,
Getreidemarkt 9, A-1060 Vienna, Austria.

The human serotonin transporter (hSERT) is responsible for the termination of
synaptic serotonergic signaling. Although there is solid evidence that SERT forms
oligomeric complexes, the exact stoichiometry of the complexes and the fractions 
of different coexisting oligomeric states still remain enigmatic. Here we used
single molecule fluorescence microscopy to obtain the oligomerization state of
the SERT via brightness analysis of single diffraction-limited fluorescent spots.
Heterologously expressed SERT was labeled either with the fluorescent inhibitor
JHC 1-64 or via fusion to monomeric GFP. We found a variety of oligomerization
states of membrane-associated transporters, revealing molecular associations
larger than dimers and demonstrating the coexistence of different degrees of
oligomerization in a single cell; the data are in agreement with a linear
aggregation model. Furthermore, oligomerization was found to be independent of
SERT surface density, and oligomers remained stable over several minutes in the
live cell plasma membrane. Together, the results indicate kinetic trapping of
preformed SERT oligomers at the plasma membrane.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.531632 
PMCID: PMC3924301
PMID: 24394416  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Nanotechnology. 2014 Jan 31;25(4):045602. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045602.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Bifunctional nanoparticles with magnetism and NIR fluorescence: controlled
synthesis from combination of AGET ATRP and 'click' reaction.

He W(1), Cheng L, Zhang L, Jiang X, Liu Z, Cheng Z, Zhu X.

Author information: 
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Advanced Functional Polymer Design and Application, 
Department of Polymer Science and Engineering, College of Chemistry, Chemical
Engineering and Materials Science, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, People's
Republic of China.

In this work, bifunctional nanoparticles (NPs) capable of emitting near infrared 
(NIR) fluorescence and generating superparamagnetism under an external magnetic
field were prepared by combination of 'click' reaction and surface-initiated
activators generated by electron transfer for atom transfer radical
polymerization (AGET ATRP) of water-soluble poly(ethylene glycol) monomethyl
ether methacrylate (PEGMA) and glycidyl methacrylate (GMA) using biocompatible
iron as the catalyst on the surface of silica-coated iron oxide (Fe3O4@SiO2) NPs.
The nanosized Fe3O4@SiO2@PPEGMA-co-PGMA@N3 was prepared through AGET ATRP and
alkynyl bearing NIR dye was also prepared; afterwards they were integrated
together by 'click' reaction. The different stages of surface modification were
approved by employing different characterization techniques such as TEM, XRD,
XPS, VSM and FT-IR, and the properties of the final NPs were thoroughly studied. 
Their suitability as dual model imaging agents for magnetic resonance (MR) and
fluorescence imaging was investigated, indicating them to be a competitive
candidate for imaging contrast agents.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045602 
PMID: 24394385  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Nanotechnology. 2014 Jan 31;25(4):045302. doi: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045302.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Spatially controlled fabrication of a bright fluorescent nanodiamond-array with
enhanced far-red Si-V luminescence.

Singh S(1), Thomas V, Martyshkin D, Kozlovskaya V, Kharlampieva E, Catledge SA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Nanoscale Materials and Biointegration (CNMB), University of
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 35294-1170, USA. Department of Physics,
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 35294-1170, USA.

We demonstrate a novel approach to precisely pattern fluorescent
nanodiamond-arrays with enhanced far-red intense photostable luminescence from
silicon-vacancy (Si-V) defect centers. The precision-patterned pre-growth seeding
of nanodiamonds is achieved by a scanning probe 'dip-pen' nanolithography
technique using electrostatically driven transfer of nanodiamonds from 'inked'
cantilevers to a UV-treated hydrophilic SiO2 substrate. The enhanced emission
from nanodiamond dots in the far-red is achieved by incorporating Si-V defect
centers in a subsequent chemical vapor deposition treatment. The development of a
suitable nanodiamond ink and mechanism of ink transport, and the effect of
humidity and dwell time on nanodiamond patterning are investigated. The precision
patterning of as-printed (pre-CVD) arrays with dot diameter and dot height as
small as 735 nm ± 27 nm and 61 nm ± 3 nm, respectively, and CVD-treated
fluorescent ND-arrays with consistently patterned dots having diameter and height
as small as 820 nm ± 20 nm and, 245 nm ± 23 nm, respectively, using 1 s dwell
time and 30% RH is successfully achieved. We anticipate that the far-red intense 
photostable luminescence (~738 nm) observed from Si-V defect centers integrated
in spatially arranged nanodiamonds could be beneficial for the development of
next generation fluorescence-based devices and applications.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/25/4/045302 
PMCID: PMC3956127
PMID: 24394286  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Apr;42(6):3783-91. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt1327. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Multiple-binding-site mechanism explains concentration-dependent unbinding rates 
of DNA-binding proteins.

Sing CE(1), Olvera de la Cruz M, Marko JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science, Northwestern University, 2220 Cook Dr.
Evanston, IL 60208, USA, Department of Molecular Biosciences, Northwestern
University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA and Department of Physics and Astronomy,
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA.

Recent work has demonstrated concentration-dependent unbinding rates of proteins 
from DNA, using fluorescence visualization of the bacterial nucleoid protein Fis 
[Graham et al. (2011) (Concentration-dependent exchange accelerates turnover of
proteins bound to double-stranded DNA. Nucleic Acids Res., 39:2249)]. The
physical origin of this concentration-dependence is unexplained. We use a
combination of coarse-grained simulation and theory to demonstrate that this
behavior can be explained by taking into account the dimeric nature of the
protein, which permits partial dissociation and exchange with other proteins in
solution. Concentration-dependent unbinding is generated by this simple model,
quantitatively explaining experimental data. This effect is likely to play a
major role in determining binding lifetimes of proteins in vivo where there are
very high concentrations of solvated molecules.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt1327 
PMCID: PMC3973338
PMID: 24393773  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Nanoscale Res Lett. 2014 Jan 7;9(1):8. doi: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-8.

Ferromagnetism and Ru-Ru distance in SrRuO3 thin film grown on SrTiO3 (111)
substrate.

Lee B, Kwon OU, Shin RH, Jo W, Jung CU(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin 449-791,
South Korea. cu-jung@hufs.ac.kr.

Epitaxial SrRuO3 thin films were grown on both (100) and (111) SrTiO3 substrates 
with atomically flat surfaces that are required to grow high-quality films of
materials under debate. The following notable differences were observed in the
(111)-oriented SrRuO3 films: (1) slightly different growth mode, (2)
approximately 10 K higher ferromagnetic transition temperature, and (3) better
conducting behavior with higher relative resistivity ratio, than (100)c-oriented 
SrRuO3 films. Together with the reported results on SrRuO3 thin films grown on
(110) SrTiO3 substrate, the different physical properties were discussed newly in
terms of the Ru-Ru nearest neighbor distance instead of the famous tolerance
factor. PACS: 75.70.Ak; 75.60.Ej; 81.15.Fg.

DOI: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-8 
PMCID: PMC3895815
PMID: 24393495 


132. Nanoscale Res Lett. 2014 Jan 6;9(1):7. doi: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-7.

Enhanced optical output power of blue light-emitting diodes with quasi-aligned
gold nanoparticles.

Jin Y, Li Q(1), Li G, Chen M, Liu J, Zou Y, Jiang K, Fan S.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Low-Dimensional Quantum Physics, Department of Physics
& Tsinghua-Foxconn Nanotechnology Research Center, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100084, China. qunqli@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

The output power of the light from GaN-based light-emitting diodes (LEDs) was
enhanced by fabricating gold (Au) nanoparticles on the surface of p-GaN.
Quasi-aligned Au nanoparticle arrays were prepared by depositing Au thin film on 
an aligned suspended carbon nanotube thin film surface and then putting the
Au-CNT system on the surface of p-GaN and thermally annealing the sample. The
size and position of the Au nanoparticles were confined by the carbon nanotube
framework, and no other additional residual Au was distributed on the surface of 
the p-GaN substrate. The output power of the light from the LEDs with Au
nanoparticles was enhanced by 55.3% for an injected current of 100 mA with the
electrical property unchanged compared with the conventional planar LEDs. The
enhancement may originate from the surface plasmon effect and scattering effect
of the Au nanoparticles.

DOI: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-7 
PMCID: PMC3882480
PMID: 24393473 


133. Nanoscale Res Lett. 2014 Jan 6;9(1):5. doi: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-5.

The InN epitaxy via controlling In bilayer.

Zhou J, Huang Q, Li J, Cai D(1), Kang J.

Author information: 
(1)Fujian Key Laboratory of Semiconductor Materials and Applications, Department 
of Physics, Xiamen University, Xiamen 361005, People's Republic of China.
dcai@xmu.edu.cn.

The method of In bilayer pre-deposition and penetrated nitridation had been
proposed, which had been proven to have many advantages theoretically. To study
the growth behavior of this method experimentally, various pulse times of
trimethylindium supply were used to get the optimal indium bilayer controlling by
metalorganic vapour phase epitaxy. The results revealed that the InN film quality
became better as the thickness of the top indium atomic layers was close to
bilayer. A following tuning of nitridation process enhanced the quality of InN
film further, which means that a moderate, stable, and slow nitridation process
by NH3 flow also plays the key role in growing better-quality InN film.
Meanwhile, the biaxial strain of InN film was gradually relaxing when the
flatness was increasingly improved.

DOI: 10.1186/1556-276X-9-5 
PMCID: PMC3895708
PMID: 24393422 


134. Artif Cells Nanomed Biotechnol. 2015;43(4):235-42. doi:
10.3109/21691401.2013.866575. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

High-capacity and security molecular capsule transporters.

Visessamit J(1), Kulsirirat K, Yupapin PP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Faculty of Science, Advanced Studies Center, King
Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang (KMITL) , Bangkok , Thailand.

Multiwavelength optical capsules can be generated and controlled by using
soliton/Gaussian pulses within a nonlinear device system known as a "PANDA" ring 
circuit and system. The security of molecule/drug transportation can be formed by
the strong coupling of soliton-like pulse, where the high-capacity optical
capsules can be formed using the multiwavelength solitons, which can be a good
advantage and combination of drug delivery to the required targets. Moreover, the
multiple access of drug delivery can be formed using the optical networks, which 
allows the use of various drug molecules with variety of diagnosis and
therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.3109/21691401.2013.866575 
PMID: 24393056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Drug Chem Toxicol. 2014 Oct;37(4):400-9. doi: 10.3109/01480545.2013.870192. Epub 
2014 Jan 7.

Lectin coated MgO nanoparticle: its toxicity, antileishmanial activity, and
macrophage activation.

Jebali A(1), Hekmatimoghaddam S, Kazemi B, Allaveisie A, Masoudi A, Daliri K,
Sedighi N, Ranjbari J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, Shahid Beheshti
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran .

The purpose of this research was to evaluate toxicity of uncoated magnesium oxide
nanoparticles (MgO NPs), MgO NPs coated with Peanut agglutinin (PNA) lectin, and 
PNA alone on the promastigotes of Leishmania major (L. major) and macrophages of 
BALB/c mice. On the other hand, antileishmanial property of uncoated MgO NPs,
lectin coated MgO NPs, and PNA lectin alone was evaluated, and also macrophage
activation was investigated after treatment with these materials by measurement
of nitrite, H2O2, and some interleukins. This study showed that PNA lectin and
lectin coated MgO NPs had approximately no toxicity on L. major and macrophages, 
but some toxic effects were observed for uncoated MgO NPs, especially at
concentration of 500 µg/mL. Interestingly, lectin coated MgO NPs had the highest 
antileishmanial activity and macrophage activation, compared with uncoated MgO
NPs and PNA lectin.

DOI: 10.3109/01480545.2013.870192 
PMID: 24393043  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 21;53(2):810-21. doi: 10.1021/ic402099x. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Design, synthesis, and optoelectronic properties of dendrimeric Pt(II) complexes 
and their ability to inhibit intermolecular interaction.

Li H(1), Li J, Ding J, Yuan W, Zhang Z, Zou L, Wang X, Zhan H, Xie Z, Cheng Y,
Wang L.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Polymer Physics and Chemistry, Changchun Institute of 
Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences , Changchun 130022, China.

Dendrimeric Pt(II) complexes [(C(∧)N)Pt(dpm)] and [Pt(C(∧)N)2] (Hdpm =
dipivaloylmethane, HC(∧)N = 1,2-diphenylbenzoimidazole and its derivatives
containing the carbazole dendrons) have been synthesized and characterized
systematically. All of the complexes display green emission in the range of
495-535 nm that originated from the 360-440 nm absorption bands, which are
assigned to dπ(Pt)→π*(L) metal-to-ligand charge transfer (MLCT) mixed with
intraligand π(L)→π*(L) transition. Solution photoluminescence quantum yield (φp
0.26-0.31) of the heteroleptic complexes [(C(∧)N)Pt(dpm)] obviously increases
when compared with that of complex [(C(∧)N)Pt(acac)]. Organic light-emitting
diode devices based on these Pt(II) complexes with a multilayer configuration
were fabricated and gave desirable electroluminescent (EL) performances, such as 
non- or less red-shifted EL spectra, in comparison with the photoluminescence
spectra and slow efficiency roll-off with increasing brightness or current
density. Complex [(t-BuCzCzPBI)Pt(dpm)] (where t-BuCzCzPBI =
1-(4-(3,6-di-(3,6-di-t-butyl-carbazol-9-yl))carbazol-9-yl)phenyl-2-phenylbenzoimi
dazole) showed the best performance, with a maximum current efficiency of 29.31
cd/A and a maximum external quantum efficiency (EQE) of 9.04% among the
fabricated devices. Likewise, for homoleptic [Pt(t-BuCzCzPBI)2] dendrimer, the
powder φp (0.14) and maximum EQE (0.74%) improve by 7 and 7.4 times,
respectively, as high as they do for nondendrimeric
[Pt(1,2-diphenylbenzoimidazole)2] (0.02, 0.10%), although its efficiency is still
lower than that of the heteroleptic counterpart due to the severely distorted
square-planar geometry of the emitting core. These results reveal that large
steric hindrance from ancillary ligand (dpm) or the homoleptic conformation can
effectively inhibit intermolecular interaction for these dendrimeric Pt(II)
complexes.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402099x 
PMID: 24393007 


137. Pharm Dev Technol. 2015 Jun;20(4):410-6. doi: 10.3109/10837450.2013.871034. Epub 
2014 Jan 6.

Comparative studies for ciprofloxacin hydrochloride pre-formed gels and thermally
triggered (in situ) gels: in vitro and in vivo appraisal using a bacterial
keratitis model in rabbits.

Abdelkader H(1), Mansour HF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Minia University , Minia ,
Egypt.

This article reports on comparative in vitro characterization and in vivo
evaluation of pre-formed cellulose-based gels, methylcellulose (MC) and
carboxymethylcellulose sodium (CMC) and in situ gel-forming Pluronic F127 (PL)
for ocular delivery of ciprofloxacin hydrochloride (Cipro) by using a bacterial
keratitis model and histological corneal examination. Drug-polymer interactions
were studied employing thermal analysis. Further, different concentrations (1-3% 
w/w or 10-30% w/w) of gels depending on the nature of the polymer used were
prepared, characterized for clarity, pH, rheology and in vitro release. Selected 
gel formulations were evaluated for ocular delivery to Staphylococcus
aureus-infected rabbit corneas; and ocular toxicity through histological
examination of the cornea. The results demonstrated no Cipro-polymers
physicochemical interactions and pseudoplastic flow for all gels used at 35 °C.
Both polymer concentrations and drug solubility in the gels are dominantly the
rate-determining factors for in vitro drug release. The corneal healing rate for 
all gel-based formulations was significantly faster (p < 0.05) than that for
Cipro solution-treated rabbits. PL-based gel induced significant swelling/edema
of the corneal stroma, compared with MC- and CMC-based gels. In conclusion,
cellulose-based polymers have superior ocular tolerability/dramatically less
irritant; and superior efficacy with more convenient administration compared with
PL and Cipro solution, respectively.

DOI: 10.3109/10837450.2013.871034 
PMID: 24392945  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. J Med Eng Technol. 2014 Mar;38(2):104-10. doi: 10.3109/03091902.2013.863394. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Automated recognition of urinary microscopic solid particles.

Almadhoun MD(1), El-Halees A.

Author information: 
(1)Information Technology Department, University College of Applied Sciences ,
Gaza , Palestine and.

Urine analysis reveals the presence of many problems and diseases in the human
body. Manual microscopic urine analysis is time-consuming, subjective to human
observation and causes mistakes. Computer aided automatic microscopic analysis
can help to overcome these problems. This paper introduces a comprehensive
approach for automating procedures for detecting and recognition of microscopic
urine particles. Samples of red blood cells (RBC), white blood cells (WBC),
calcium oxalate, triple phosphate and other undefined images were used in
experiments. Image processing functions and segmentation were applied, shape and 
textural features were extracted and five classifiers were tested to get the best
results. Repeated experiments were done for adjusting factors to produce the best
evaluation results. A good performance was achieved compared with many related
works.

DOI: 10.3109/03091902.2013.863394 
PMID: 24392883  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Nano Lett. 2014 Feb 12;14(2):512-7. doi: 10.1021/nl403515c. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Growth of semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes by using ceria as
catalyst supports.

Qin X(1), Peng F, Yang F, He X, Huang H, Luo D, Yang J, Wang S, Liu H, Peng L, Li
Y.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for the Physics and Chemistry of Nanodevices, ‡Beijing National
Laboratory for Molecular Science, College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering,
and §State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth Materials Chemistry and Applications,
Peking University , Beijing 100871, China.

The growth of semiconducting single-walled carbon nanotubes (s-SWNTs) on flat
substrates is essential for the application of SWNTs in electronic and
optoelectronic devices. We developed a flexible strategy to selectively grow
s-SWNTs on silicon substrates using a ceria-supported iron or cobalt catalysts.
Ceria, which stores active oxygen, plays a crucial role in the selective growth
process by inhibiting the formation of metallic SWNTs via oxidation. The
so-produced ultralong s-SWNT arrays are immediately ready for building field
effect transistors.

DOI: 10.1021/nl403515c 
PMID: 24392872 


140. J Microsc. 2014 Mar;253(3):183-90. doi: 10.1111/jmi.12108. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Three-dimensional structural imaging of starch granules by second-harmonic
generation circular dichroism.

Zhuo GY(1), Lee H, Hsu KJ, Huttunen MJ, Kauranen M, Lin YY, Chu SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Chirality is one of the most fundamental and essential structural properties of
biological molecules. Many important biological molecules including amino acids
and polysaccharides are intrinsically chiral. Conventionally, chiral species can 
be distinguished by interaction with circularly polarized light, and circular
dichroism is one of the best-known approaches for chirality detection. As a
linear optical process, circular dichroism suffers from very low signal contrast 
and lack of spatial resolution in the axial direction. It has been demonstrated
that by incorporating nonlinear interaction with circularly polarized excitation,
second-harmonic generation circular dichroism can provide much higher signal
contrast. However, previous circular dichroism and second-harmonic generation
circular dichroism studies are mostly limited to probe chiralities at surfaces
and interfaces. It is known that second-harmonic generation, as a second-order
nonlinear optical effect, provides excellent optical sectioning capability when
combined with a laser-scanning microscope. In this work, we combine the axial
resolving power of second-harmonic generation and chiral sensitivity of
second-harmonic generation circular dichroism to realize three-dimensional chiral
detection in biological tissues. Within the point spread function of a tight
focus, second-harmonic generation circular dichroism could arise from the
macroscopic supramolecular packing as well as the microscopic intramolecular
chirality, so our aim is to clarify the origins of second-harmonic generation
circular dichroism response in complicated three-dimensional biological systems. 
The sample we use is starch granules whose second-harmonic generation-active
molecules are amylopectin with both microscopic chirality due to its helical
structure and macroscopic chirality due to its crystallized packing. We found
that in a starch granule, the second-harmonic generation for right-handed
circularly polarized excitation is significantly different from second-harmonic
generation for left-handed one, offering excellent second-harmonic generation
circular dichroism contrast that approaches 100%. In addition, three-dimensional 
visualization of second-harmonic generation circular dichroism distribution with 
sub-micrometer spatial resolution is realized. We observed second-harmonic
generation circular dichroism sign change across the starch granules, and the
result suggests that in thick biological tissue, second-harmonic generation
circular dichroism arises from macroscopic molecular packing. Our result provides
a new method to visualize the organization of three-dimensional structures of
starch granules. The second-harmonic generation circular dichroism imaging method
expands the horizon of nonlinear chiroptical studies from simplified
surface/solution environments to complicated biological tissues.

© 2014 The Authors Journal of Microscopy © 2014 Royal Microscopical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jmi.12108 
PMID: 24392849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 21;53(2):922-30. doi: 10.1021/ic4023135. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Luminescent dirhenium(I)-double-heterostranded helicate and mesocate.

Shankar B(1), Sahu S, Deibel N, Schweinfurth D, Sarkar B, Elumalai P, Gupta D,
Hussain F, Krishnamoorthy G, Sathiyendiran M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Delhi , Delhi 110 007, India.

The semirigid ligands 1,4-bis(2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzimidazol-1-ylmethyl)benzene 
(H2-pBC) and
1,3-bis(2-(2-hydroxyphenyl)benzimidazol-1-ylmethyl)-2,4,6-trimethylbenzene
(H2-mBC), containing two hydroxyphenylbenzimidazolyl units as bis-chelating (or
bis(bidentate)) N∩OH donor, were synthesized and were used to assemble neutral,
luminescent heteroleptic, unsaturated double-hetero-stranded, rhenium(I)-based
helicate (1) and mesocate (2) with the flexible bis(monodentate) nitrogen donor
(1,4-bis(benzimidazol-1-ylmethyl)benzene/1,3-bis(benzimidazol-1-ylmethyl)benzene)
, and Re2(CO)10. The photophysical properties of the complexes were studied. Both
complexes 1 and 2 exhibit dual emissions in both solution and solid state. In
solution, these complexes show both fluorescence and phosphorescence. Complex 1
undergoes a predominantly ligand-centered oxidation, resulting in the generation 
of phenoxyl radicals.

DOI: 10.1021/ic4023135 
PMID: 24392634  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Microsc Res Tech. 2014 Feb;77(2):105-9. doi: 10.1002/jemt.22332. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

MRT letter: Experimental verification of vectorial theory to determine field at
the geometrical focus of a cylindrical lens.

Mohan K(1), Mondal PP.

Author information: 
(1)Nanobioimaging Laboratory, Department of Instrumentation and Applied Physics, 
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, 560012, India.

We provide experimental evidence supporting the vectorial theory for determining 
electric field at and near the geometrical focus of a cylindrical lens. This
theory provides precise distribution of field and its polarization effects.
Experimental results show a close match (≈ 95% using χ(2)-test) with the
simulation results (obtained using vectorial theory). Light-sheet generated both 
at low and high NA cylindrical lens shows the importance of vectorial theory for 
further development of light-sheet techniques. Potential applications are in
planar imaging systems (such as, SPIM, IML-SPIM, imaging cytometry) and
spectroscopy.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.22332 
PMID: 24391109 


143. J Orthop Res. 2014 Apr;32(4):606-12. doi: 10.1002/jor.22574. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

In vivo monitoring of implant osseointegration in a rabbit model using acoustic
sound analysis.

Ruther C(1), Gabler C, Ewald H, Ellenrieder M, Haenle M, Lindner T, Mittelmeier
W, Bader R, Kluess D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University Medicine Rostock, Doberaner Strasse 142,
D-18057, Rostock, Germany.

Implant osseointegration can currently only be assessed reliably post mortem. A
novel method that relies on the principle of acoustic sound analysis was
developed to enable examination of the longitudinal progress of osseointegration.
The method is based on a magnetic sphere inside a hollow cylinder of the implant.
By excitation using an external magnetic field, collision of the sphere inside
the implant produces a sound signal. Custom-made titanium implants equipped
thusly were inserted in each lateral femoral epicondyle of 20 New Zealand White
Rabbits. Two groups were investigated: Uncoated, machined surface versus
antiadhesive surface; and calcium phosphate-coated surface versus antiadhesive
surface. The sound analysis was performed postoperatively and weekly. After 4
weeks, the animals were euthanized, and the axial pull-out strengths of the
implants were determined. A significant increase in the central frequency was
observed for the loose implants (mean pull-out strength 21.1 ± 16.9 N), up to
6.4 kHz over 4 weeks. In comparison, the central frequency of the osseointegrated
implants (105.2 ± 25.3 N) dropped to its initial value. The presented method
shows potential for monitoring the osseointegration of different implant surfaces
and could considerably reduce the number of animals needed for experiments.

© 2014 Orthopaedic Research Society. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jor.22574 
PMID: 24391086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Magn Reson Imaging. 2014 Dec;40(6):1310-8. doi: 10.1002/jmri.24513. Epub 2014
Jan 6.

Simultaneous assessment of vessel size index, relative blood volume, and vessel
permeability in a mouse brain tumor model using a combined spin echo gradient
echo echo-planar imaging sequence and viable tumor analysis.

Kording F(1), Weidensteiner C, Zwick S, Osterberg N, Weyerbrock A, Staszewski O, 
von Elverfeldt D, Reichardt W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology Medical Physics, University Medical Center, Freiburg, 
Germany.

PURPOSE: Combining multiple imaging biomarkers in one magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) session would be beneficial to gain more data pertaining to tumor
vasculature under therapy. Therefore, simultaneous measurement of perfusion,
permeability, and vessel size imaging (VSI) using a gradient echo spin echo
(GE-SE) sequence with injection of a clinically approved gadolinium (Gd)-based
contrast agent was assessed in an orthotopic glioma model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A combined spin echo gradient echo echo-planar imaging
sequence was implemented using a single contrast agent Gd
diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA). This sequence was tested in a mouse
brain tumor model (U87_MG), also under treatment with an antiangiogenic agent
(bevacizumab). T2 maps and the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) were used to 
differentiate regions of cell death and viable tumor tissue.
RESULTS: In viable tumor tissue regional blood volume was 5.7 ± 0.6% in controls 
and 5.2 ± 0.3% in treated mice. Vessel size was 18.1 ± 2.4 μm in controls and
12.8 ± 2.0 μm in treated mice, which correlated with results from
immunohistochemistry. Permeability (K(trans) ) was close to zero in treated
viable tumor tissue and 0.062 ± 0.024 min(-1) in controls.
CONCLUSION: Our MRI method allows simultaneous assessment of several
physiological and morphological parameters and extraction of MRI biomarkers for
vasculature. These could be used for treatment monitoring of novel therapeutic
agents such as antiangiogenic drugs.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmri.24513 
PMID: 24390982  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Chem Soc Rev. 2014 Jun 7;43(11):3884-97. doi: 10.1039/c3cs60340g. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

Probing subdiffraction limit separations with plasmon coupling microscopy:
concepts and applications.

Wu L(1), Reinhard BM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and The Photonics Center, Boston University, Boston,
Massachusetts, USA. bmr@bu.edu.

Due to their advantageous material properties, noble metal nanoparticles are
versatile tools in biosensing and imaging. A characteristic feature of gold and
silver nanoparticles is their ability to sustain localized surface plasmons that 
provide both large optical cross-sections and extraordinary photophysical
stability. Plasmon coupling microscopy takes advantage of the beneficial optical 
properties and utilizes electromagnetic near-field coupling between individual
noble metal nanoparticle labels to resolve subdiffraction limit separations in an
all-optical fashion. This Tutorial provides an introduction into the physical
concepts underlying distance dependent plasmon coupling, discusses potential
experimental implementation of plasmon coupling microscopy, and reviews
applications in the area of biosensing and imaging.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cs60340g 
PMCID: PMC4109285
PMID: 24390574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Nat Mater. 2014 Mar;13(3):258-63. doi: 10.1038/nmat3840. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Mutually tangled colloidal knots and induced defect loops in nematic fields.

Martinez A(1), Ravnik M(2), Lucero B(3), Visvanathan R(3), Zumer S(4), Smalyukh
II(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA
[2] Liquid Crystal Materials Research Center, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80309, USA.
(2)Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, University of Ljubljana, Jadranska 19,
Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia.
(3)Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.
(4)1] Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, University of Ljubljana, Jadranska 19, 
Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia [2] Jozef Stefan Institute, Jamova 39, Ljubljana 1000,
Slovenia.
(5)1] Department of Physics, University of Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA
[2] Liquid Crystal Materials Research Center, University of Colorado, Boulder,
Colorado 80309, USA [3] Department of Electrical, Computer, and Energy
Engineering and Materials Science and Engineering Program, University of
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA [4] Renewable and Sustainable Energy
Institute, National Renewable Energy Laboratory and University of Colorado,
Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA.

Comment in
    Nat Mater. 2014 Mar;13(3):229-31.

Colloidal dispersions in liquid crystals can serve as a soft-matter toolkit for
the self-assembly of composite materials with pre-engineered properties and
structures that are highly dependent on particle-induced topological defects.
Here, we demonstrate that bulk and surface defects in nematic fluids can be
patterned by tuning the topology of colloidal particles dispersed in them. In
particular, by taking advantage of two-photon photopolymerization techniques to
make knot-shaped microparticles, we show that the interplay of the topologies of 
the knotted particles, the nematic field and the induced defects leads to
knotted, linked and other topologically non-trivial field configurations. These
structures match theoretical predictions made on the basis of the minimization of
the elastic free energy and satisfy topological constraints. Our approach may
find uses in self-assembled topological superstructures of knotted particles
linked by nematic fields, in topological scaffolds supporting the decoration of
defect networks with nanoparticles, and in modelling other physical systems
exhibiting topologically analogous phenomena.

DOI: 10.1038/nmat3840 
PMID: 24390381 


147. Nat Mater. 2014 Feb;13(2):184-9. doi: 10.1038/nmat3848. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Real-space imaging of interfacial water with submolecular resolution.

Guo J(1), Meng X(1), Chen J(1), Peng J(2), Sheng J(2), Li XZ(2), Xu L(2), Shi
JR(2), Wang E(2), Jiang Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)1] International Center for Quantum Materials (ICQM) and School of Physics,
Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2] Collaborative Innovation Center of
Quantum Matter, Beijing, China [3].
(2)1] International Center for Quantum Materials (ICQM) and School of Physics,
Peking University, Beijing 100871, China [2] Collaborative Innovation Center of
Quantum Matter, Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    Nat Mater. 2017 Jan 25;16(2):273.

Water/solid interfaces are vital to our daily lives and are also a central theme 
across an incredibly wide range of scientific disciplines. Resolving the internal
structure, that is, the O-H directionality, of water molecules adsorbed on solid 
surfaces has been one of the key issues of water science yet it remains
challenging. Using a low-temperature scanning tunnelling microscope, we report
submolecular-resolution imaging of individual water monomers and tetramers on
NaCl(001) films supported by a Au(111) substrate at 5 K. The frontier molecular
orbitals of adsorbed water were directly visualized, which allowed discrimination
of the orientation of the monomers and the hydrogen-bond directionality of the
tetramers in real space. Comparison with ab initio density functional theory
calculations reveals that the ability to access the orbital structures of water
stems from the electronic decoupling effect provided by the NaCl films and the
precisely tunable tip-water coupling.

DOI: 10.1038/nmat3848 
PMID: 24390380 


148. Nature. 2014 Jan 23;505(7484):520-4. doi: 10.1038/nature12917. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

A millisecond pulsar in a stellar triple system.

Ransom SM(1), Stairs IH(2), Archibald AM(3), Hessels JW(4), Kaplan DL(5), van
Kerkwijk MH(6), Boyles J(7), Deller AT(8), Chatterjee S(9), Schechtman-Rook
A(10), Berndsen A(2), Lynch RS(11), Lorimer DR(12), Karako-Argaman C(11), Kaspi
VM(11), Kondratiev VI(13), McLaughlin MA(12), van Leeuwen J(4), Rosen R(14),
Roberts MS(15), Stovall K(16).

Author information: 
(1)National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Road, Charlottesville,
Virginia 22903-2475, USA.
(2)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of British Columbia, 6224
Agricultural Road, Vancouver, British Columbia V6T 1Z1, Canada.
(3)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Department of Physics, McGill University, 3600
University Street, Montreal, Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(4)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Astronomical Institute 'Anton Pannekoek',
University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)1] Physics Department, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, PO Box 413,
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53201, USA [2] Department of Astronomy, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, 475 North Charter Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1582, USA.
(6)Department of Astronomy and Astrophysics, University of Toronto, 50 St George 
Street, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3H4, Canada.
(7)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia University, White Hall, 
Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA [2] Physics and Astronomy
Department, Western Kentucky University, 1906 College Heights Boulevard, Bowling 
Green, Kentucky 42101-1077, USA.
(8)Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands.
(9)Center for Radiophysics and Space Research, Cornell University, 524 Space
Sciences Building, Ithaca, New York 14853, USA.
(10)Department of Astronomy, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 475 North Charter
Street, Madison, Wisconsin 53706-1582, USA.
(11)Department of Physics, McGill University, 3600 University Street, Montreal,
Quebec H3A 2T8, Canada.
(12)Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia University, White Hall,
Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA.
(13)1] Netherlands Institute for Radio Astronomy (ASTRON), Postbus 2, 7990 AA
Dwingeloo, The Netherlands [2] Astro Space Center of the Lebedev Physical
Institute, 53 Leninskij Prospekt, Moscow 119991, Russia.
(14)1] National Radio Astronomy Observatory, 520 Edgemont Road, Charlottesville, 
Virginia 22903-2475, USA [2] Department of Physics and Astronomy, West Virginia
University, White Hall, Box 6315, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-6315, USA.
(15)1] Eureka Scientific Inc., 2452 Delmer Street, Suite 100, Oakland, California
94602-3017, USA [2] Physics Department, New York University at Abu Dhabi, PO Box 
129188, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
(16)1] Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Texas at Brownsville,
One West University Boulevard, Brownsville, Texas 78520, USA [2] Physics and
Astronomy Department, University of New Mexico, 1919 Lomas Boulevard NE,
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87131-0001, USA.

Gravitationally bound three-body systems have been studied for hundreds of years 
and are common in our Galaxy. They show complex orbital interactions, which can
constrain the compositions, masses and interior structures of the bodies and test
theories of gravity, if sufficiently precise measurements are available. A triple
system containing a radio pulsar could provide such measurements, but the only
previously known such system, PSR B1620-26 (refs 7, 8; with a millisecond pulsar,
a white dwarf, and a planetary-mass object in an orbit of several decades), shows
only weak interactions. Here we report precision timing and multiwavelength
observations of PSR J0337+1715, a millisecond pulsar in a hierarchical triple
system with two other stars. Strong gravitational interactions are apparent and
provide the masses of the pulsar M[Symbol: see text](1.4378(13), where M[Symbol: 
see text]is the solar mass and the parentheses contain the uncertainty in the
final decimal places) and the two white dwarf companions (0.19751(15)M[Symbol:
see text] and 0.4101(3))M[Symbol: see text], as well as the inclinations of the
orbits (both about 39.2°). The unexpectedly coplanar and nearly circular orbits
indicate a complex and exotic evolutionary past that differs from those of known 
stellar systems. The gravitational field of the outer white dwarf strongly
accelerates the inner binary containing the neutron star, and the system will
thus provide an ideal laboratory in which to test the strong equivalence
principle of general relativity.

DOI: 10.1038/nature12917 
PMID: 24390352 


149. Nat Neurosci. 2014 Feb;17(2):296-303. doi: 10.1038/nn.3600. Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Flies and humans share a motion estimation strategy that exploits natural scene
statistics.

Clark DA(1), Fitzgerald JE(2), Ales JM(3), Gohl DM(4), Silies MA(4), Norcia
AM(5), Clandinin TR(4).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
[2] [3].
(2)1] Department of Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA. [2] 
[3].
(3)1] Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
[2] [3].
(4)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, USA.

Sighted animals extract motion information from visual scenes by processing
spatiotemporal patterns of light falling on the retina. The dominant models for
motion estimation exploit intensity correlations only between pairs of points in 
space and time. Moving natural scenes, however, contain more complex
correlations. We found that fly and human visual systems encode the combined
direction and contrast polarity of moving edges using triple correlations that
enhance motion estimation in natural environments. Both species extracted triple 
correlations with neural substrates tuned for light or dark edges, and
sensitivity to specific triple correlations was retained even as light and dark
edge motion signals were combined. Thus, both species separately process light
and dark image contrasts to capture motion signatures that can improve estimation
accuracy. This convergence argues that statistical structures in natural scenes
have greatly affected visual processing, driving a common computational strategy 
over 500 million years of evolution.

DOI: 10.1038/nn.3600 
PMCID: PMC3993001
PMID: 24390225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):045702. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045702. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

The magnetic penetration depth influenced by the proximity to the surface.

Barash YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Solid State Physics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Chernogolovka, 
Moscow District, 142432, Russia.

The effect of smooth inhomogeneities near a superconductor boundary on the
magnetic penetration depth λ is studied with emphasis on the proximity-induced
spatial dependence of the Cooper pair amplitude. The influence of surface pair
breaking or pair formation on λ is described within the Ginzburg-Landau theory,
with no model assumptions, for both strongly type-II and strongly type-I
homogeneous superconductors. Generic values of λ, which can differ greatly from
the London penetration depth, are identified and demonstrated to be induced by
large-scale inhomogeneities, when superconductivity is strongly suppressed on the
surface.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045702 
PMID: 24390056 


151. Environ Monit Assess. 2014 May;186(5):2813-21. doi: 10.1007/s10661-013-3582-8.
Epub 2014 Jan 5.

Comprehensive screening and priority ranking of volatile organic compounds in
Daliao River, China.

Ma H(1), Zhang H, Wang L, Wang J, Chen J.

Author information: 
(1)Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian,
116023, China.

An analytical strategy for comprehensive screening of target and non-target
volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in surface water was developed, and it was
applied to the analysis of VOCs in water samples from Daliao River. The target
VOCs were quantified using purge and trap-gas chromatography-mass spectrometry
(P&T-GC/MS). Among 20 water samples, 34 VOCs were detected at least once. For the
screening of non-target VOCs, the double distillation apparatus was used for the 
pre-concentration of VOCs prior to P&T-GC/MS analysis. Subsequently,
deconvolution software and NIST mass spectral library were applied for the
identification of the non-target compounds. A total of 17 non-target VOCs were
identified. The most frequently detected VOCs (detection frequencies >80 %)
included toluene, benzene, naphthalene, 1,2-dichloroethane,
1,1,2-trichloroethane, and methyl tert-butyl ether. The distribution of VOCs
obviously varied according to the sampling sites. The total concentrations of
VOCs in water samples collected from the heavily industrialized cities (Anshan
and Liaoyang) and the busy port city (Yingkou) were relatively high. The top ten 
priority VOCs, including naphthalene, 1,2-dichloroethane, o-xylene,
1,3-dichlorobenzene, tetrachloroethene, 1,2-dichlorobenzene,
1,2,4-trichlorobenzene, ethylbenzene, m-xylene, and p-xylene, were obtained by
the ranking of the detected VOCs according to their occurrence and ecological
effects. These compounds should be given more attention in monitoring and
drainage control strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-013-3582-8 
PMID: 24389912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):045501. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045501. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Ab initio study on the rare-earth iron-pnictides RFeAsO (R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd) in
the low-temperature Cmma phase.

Ertürk E(1), Gürel T, Lukoyanov AV, Akçay G, Eryiğit R, Anisimov VI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Namik Kemal University, Tekirdağ, TR-59030, Turkey.

We present density functional theory calculations on the iron-based pnictides
RFeAsO (R = Pr, Nd, Sm, Gd). The calculations have been carried out using plane
waves and the projector augmented wave (PAW) pseudopotential approach.
Structural, magnetic and electronic properties are studied within the generalized
gradient approximation (GGA) and also within GGA + U in order to investigate the 
influence of electron correlation effects. The low-temperature Cmma structure is 
fully optimized by the GGA considering both non-magnetic and magnetic cells. We
have found that the spin-polarized structure improves the agreement with
experiments on equilibrium lattice parameters, particularly the c lattice
parameter and the Fe-As bond-lengths. The electronic band structure, total
density of states, and spin-dependent orbital-resolved density of states are also
analyzed and discussed in the frameworks of GGA and GGA + U. For all materials,
by including an on-site Coulomb correction, the rare-earth 4f states move away
from the Fermi level and the Fermi level features of the systems are found to be 
mostly defined by the 3d electron-electron correlations in Fe.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045501 
PMID: 24389845 


153. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):045302. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045302. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Spin-current Seebeck effect in quantum dot systems.

Yang ZC(1), Sun QF, Xie XC.

Author information: 
(1)International Center for Quantum Materials, School of Physics, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic of China. Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Quantum Matter, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

We first bring up the concept of the spin-current Seebeck effect based on a
recent experiment (Vera-Marun et al 2012 Nature Phys. 8 313), and investigate the
spin-current Seebeck effect in quantum dot (QD) systems. Our results show that
the spin-current Seebeck coefficient S is sensitive to different polarization
states of the QD, and therefore can be used to detect the polarization state of
the QD and monitor the transitions between different polarization states of the
QD. The intradot Coulomb interaction can greatly enhance S due to the stronger
polarization of the QD. By using the parameters for a typical QD whose intradot
Coulomb interaction U is one order of magnitude larger than the linewidth Γ, we
demonstrate that the maximum value of S can be enhanced by a factor of 80. On the
other hand, for a QD whose Coulomb interaction is negligible, we show that one
can still obtain a large S by applying an external magnetic field.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045302 
PMID: 24389759 


154. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):045301. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045301. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Theoretical calculations of low-field electroreflectance of ultra-thin hexagonal 
BN films at the fundamental absorption edge.

Margulis VA(1), Muryumin EE, Gaiduk EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Mordovian Ogarev State University, Saransk 430005,
Russia.

A theory is developed to describe the electric field effect on the reflectivity
of ultra-thin films of hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) at the fundamental
absorption edge. The formulation of the theory is based on the original nonlinear
optical approach to electroreflectance (ER) worked out by Aspnes and Rowe (1972
Phys. Rev. B 5 4022). Within the framework of the approach, the
electric-field-induced change in the reflectivity in the low-field regime is
expressed in terms of the third derivative of the linear optical dielectric
function of the system. An explicit closed-form expression for this function is
derived within the independent-layer approximation using the tight-binding
representation for the π-electron energy bands of h-BN atomic layers.
Incorporating this result with the general formalism of Aspnes and Rowe enables
the electro-optical response function to be obtained in an explicit analytic form
convenient to further numerical analysis for any particular set of input
empirical parameters. The results of such an analysis suitable for the ER effect 
in few-layer h-BN films are presented and discussed in the context of important
information they are able to provide for band structure parameters of this
material. Our findings (e.g. distinct resonant field-invariant spectral features 
in the ER near the fundamental bandgap of the material under study) suggest that 
the ER technique can be used as a sensitive tool to help characterize the
electronic structure of atomic hexagonal layers built from boron and nitrogen.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/045301 
PMID: 24389700 


155. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):042202. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/042202. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Two regimes in conductivity and the Hall coefficient of underdoped cuprates in
strong magnetic fields.

Gor'kov LP(1), Teitel'baum GB.

Author information: 
(1)NHMFL, Florida State University, 1800 East Paul Dirac Drive, Tallahassee, FL
32310, USA. L D Landau Institute for Theoretical Physics of the RAS,
Chernogolovka 142432, Russia.

We address recent experiments shedding light on the energy spectrum of under and 
optimally doped cuprates at temperatures above the superconducting transition.
Angle resolved photoemission reveals coherent excitation only near nodal points
on parts of the 'bare' Fermi surface known as the Fermi arcs. The question
debated in the literature is whether the small normal pocket, seen via quantum
oscillations, exists at higher temperatures or forms below a charge order
transition in strong magnetic fields. Assuming the former case as a possibility, 
expressions are derived for the resistivity and the Hall coefficient (in weak and
strong magnetic fields) with both types of carriers participating in the
transport. There are two regimes. At higher temperatures (at a fixed field)
electrons are dragged by the Fermi arcs' holes. The pocket being small, its
contribution to conductivity and the Hall coefficient is negligible. At lower
temperatures electrons decouple from holes behaving as a Fermi gas in the
magnetic field. As the mobility of holes on the arcs decreases in strong fields
with a decrease of temperature, below a crossover point the pocket electrons
prevail, changing the sign of the Hall coefficient in the low temperature limit. 
Such behavior finds its confirmation in recent high-field experiments.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/042202 
PMID: 24389670 


156. J Phys Condens Matter. 2014 Jan 29;26(4):042201. doi:
10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/042201. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

AEMnSb2 (AE=Sr, Ba): a new class of Dirac materials.

Farhan MA(1), Lee G, Shim JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang
790-784, Korea. Physics Division, PINSTECH, PO Nilore, Islamabad 1482, Pakistan.

The Dirac fermions of Sb square net in AEMnSb2 (AE=Sr, Ba) are investigated by
using first-principles calculation. BaMnSb2 contains Sb square net layers with a 
coincident stacking of Ba atoms, exhibiting Dirac fermion behavior. On the other 
hand, SrMnSb2 has a staggered stacking of Sr atoms with distorted zig-zag chains 
of Sb atoms. Application of hydrostatic pressure on the latter induces a
structural change from a staggered to a coincident arrangement of AE ions
accompanying a transition from insulator to a metal containing Dirac fermions.
The structural investigations show that the stacking type of cation and
orthorhombic distortion of Sb layers are the main factors to decide the crystal
symmetry of the material. We propose that the Dirac fermions can be obtained by
controlling the size of cation and the volume of AEMnSb2 compounds.

DOI: 10.1088/0953-8984/26/4/042201 
PMID: 24389589 


157. J Phys Chem A. 2014 Jan 16;118(2):495-502. doi: 10.1021/jp410191y. Epub 2014 Jan 
6.

Molecule-optimized basis sets and Hamiltonians for accelerated electronic
structure calculations of atoms and molecules.

Gidofalvi G(1), Mazziotti DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Gonzaga University , Spokane,
Washington 99258, United States.

Molecule-optimized basis sets, based on approximate natural orbitals, are
developed for accelerating the convergence of quantum calculations with strongly 
correlated (multireferenced) electrons. We use a low-cost approximate solution of
the anti-Hermitian contracted Schrödinger equation (ACSE) for the one- and
two-electron reduced density matrices (RDMs) to generate an approximate set of
natural orbitals for strongly correlated quantum systems. The natural-orbital
basis set is truncated to generate a molecule-optimized basis set whose rank
matches that of a standard correlation-consistent basis set optimized for the
atoms. We show that basis-set truncation by approximate natural orbitals can be
viewed as a one-electron unitary transformation of the Hamiltonian operator and
suggest an extension of approximate natural-orbital truncations through
two-electron unitary transformations of the Hamiltonian operator, such as those
employed in the solution of the ACSE. The molecule-optimized basis set from the
ACSE improves the accuracy of the equivalent standard atom-optimized basis set at
little additional computational cost. We illustrate the method with the potential
energy curves of hydrogen fluoride and diatomic nitrogen. Relative to the
hydrogen fluoride potential energy curve from the ACSE in a polarized triple-ζ
basis set, the ACSE curve in a molecule-optimized basis set, equivalent in size
to a polarized double-ζ basis, has a nonparallelity error of 0.0154 au, which is 
significantly better than the nonparallelity error of 0.0252 au from the
polarized double-ζ basis set.

DOI: 10.1021/jp410191y 
PMID: 24387056  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2014 Apr;11(4):467-78. doi: 10.1517/17425247.2014.876004.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Anal fissure nanocarrier of lercanidipine for enhanced transdermal delivery:
formulation optimization, ex vivo and in vivo assessment.

Ahmad N(1), Amin S, Neupane YR, Kohli K.

Author information: 
(1)Hamdard University, Faculty of Pharmacy, Department of Pharmaceutics , New
Delhi-110062 , India +91 11 26059688, +91 9818335148 ; kanchankohli50@gmai.com.

OBJECTIVE: Pathogenesis of anal fissure (AF) is associated with raised resting
anal pressures (RAP) involving contraction of smooth muscle. Therefore, the drug 
delivery strategy should be customized to reduce this raised RAP. In this
investigation, in order to achieve this task, a transdermal nanoemulsion (NE) gel
of lercanidipine (LER) was developed and optimized to evaluate its permeation
ability and in vivo performance. Further, the same formulation was explored for
droplet size analysis, zeta potential measurement and stability studies.
METHODS: Pseudo-ternary phase diagram was constructed to determine NE region. The
NE was optimized (OPT) by employing three-factor, three-level Box-Behnken design 
expert software; the independent variables decided were composition of oil, Smix 
and water and dependent variables, that is, responses were cumulative amount of
drug permeated across rat abdominal skin in 24 h (Q24), steady-state flux (Js)
and viscosity. The in vivo efficacy was assessed by measuring anorectal pressure 
in male Wistar rats.
RESULTS: The OPT NE formulation, composed of Capryol 90 (12.70% w/w), Cremophor
EL (18.0% w/w), Transcutol HP (18.0% w/w) and water (60.00%) w/w was found to
have permeation flux of 60.27 µg/cm(2)/h, release of 1699.52 µg/24 h and 491.95
cP viscosity. In addition, a small average droplet size (82.71 ± 9.96 nm) and
long-term stability at room temperature (1.666 years) was observed. The in vivo
investigation demonstrated direct evidence on significant reduction (27.75%) in
anorectal pressure over a period of 4 h.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary finding suggested that NE-based gel system of LER
may provide promising perspective in management of AF.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2014.876004 
PMID: 24386935  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Expert Opin Drug Deliv. 2014 Mar;11(3):365-78. doi: 10.1517/17425247.2014.873402.
Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Improving inhaler technique, adherence to therapy and the precision of dosing:
major challenges for pulmonary drug delivery.

Newman S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Scientific Consultant , Norfolk , UK +44 1485 533140 ;
steve.newman@physics.org.

INTRODUCTION: The inhaled route has many advantages, but requires the patient to 
use, and to master the use of, an inhaler device. Poor inhaler technique and
non-adherence to therapy lead to a highly variable lung dose in clinical
practice, with subsequent loss of clinical efficacy and wastage of economic
resources.
AREAS COVERED: This paper discusses problems of poor inhaler technique,
non-adherence to inhaler therapy, other issues relating to the precision of dose 
delivery, the consequences of these problems and how they can be addressed.
EXPERT OPINION: The precision of dosing by the pulmonary route can be improved by
appropriate choice of inhaler device and by education. It is vital to educate
patients about their disease, about the importance of taking prescribed
medications and about correct inhaler use. One-on-one sessions with healthcare
professionals probably represent the most effective educational method. For some 
drugs and patient groups, inhalers containing small microprocessors may also be
used to control inhalation technique, and hence, to obtain a more reproducible
lung dose. As the range of drugs delivered by inhalation increases, the need for 
correct inhaler technique, adherence to therapy and precise dosing becomes more
and more important.

DOI: 10.1517/17425247.2014.873402 
PMID: 24386924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Nano Lett. 2014 Feb 12;14(2):731-6. doi: 10.1021/nl404008e. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Low-cost high-performance solid-state asymmetric supercapacitors based on MnO2
nanowires and Fe2O3 nanotubes.

Yang P(1), Ding Y, Lin Z, Chen Z, Li Y, Qiang P, Ebrahimi M, Mai W, Wong CP, Wang
ZL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Siyuan Laboratory, Jinan University , Guangzhou,
Guangdong 510632, China.

A low-cost high-performance solid-state flexible asymmetric supercapacitor (ASC) 
with α-MnO2 nanowires and amorphous Fe2O3 nanotubes grown on flexible carbon
fabric is first designed and fabricated. The assembled novel flexible ASC device 
with an extended operating voltage window of 1.6 V exhibits excellent performance
such as a high energy density of 0.55 mWh/cm(3) and good rate capability. The ASC
devices can find numerous applications as effective power sources, such as
powering color-switchable sun glasses and smart windows.

DOI: 10.1021/nl404008e 
PMID: 24382331 


161. Nano Lett. 2014 Feb 12;14(2):806-12. doi: 10.1021/nl4041516. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Profiling nanowire thermal resistance with a spatial resolution of nanometers.

Liu D(1), Xie R, Yang N, Li B, Thong JT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Centre for Computational Science and Engineering,
National University of Singapore , Singapore 117546, Republic of Singapore.

Erratum in
    Nano Lett. 2014 Jul 9;14(7):4195.

We report a new technique to profile the thermal resistance along a nanowire with
a spatial resolution of better than 20 nm. Using this technique, we mapped the
thermal conductivity along a Si0.7Ge0.3/NiSi0.7Ge0.3 heterostructured nanowire.
We also measured the interfacial thermal resistance (ITR) across the Si/NiSi2
interface embedded in Si/NiSi2 heterostructured nanowires. The ITR does not
change even for adjacent interfaces as close as ∼ 50 atomic layers.

DOI: 10.1021/nl4041516 
PMID: 24382310 


162. J Org Chem. 2014 Jan 17;79(2):711-9. doi: 10.1021/jo402500a. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Understanding the effects of preorganization, rigidity, and steric interactions
in synthetic barbiturate receptors.

McGrath JM(1), Pluth MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Materials Science Institute,
University of Oregon , Eugene, Oregon 97403-1253, United States.

Synthetic barbiturate receptors have been utilized for many applications due to
their high binding affinities for complementary guests. Although interest in this
class of receptors spans from supramolecular to materials chemistry, the effects 
of receptor steric bulk and preorganization on guest binding affinity has not
been studied systematically. To investigate the roles that steric bulk and
preorganization play in guest binding, we prepared a series of 12 deconstructed
Hamilton receptors with varying degrees of steric bulk and preorganization. Both 
diethylbarbital and 3-methyl-7-propylxanthine were investigated as guests for the
synthetic receptors. The stoichiometry of guest binding was investigated using
Job plots for each host-guest pair, and (1)H NMR titrations were performed to
measure the guest binding affinities. To complement the solution-state studies,
DFT calculations at the B3LYP/6-31+G(d,p) level of theory employing the IEF-PCM
CHCl3 solvation model were also performed. Calculated guest binding energies
correlated well with the experimental findings and provided additional insight
into the factors influencing guest binding. Taken together, the results presented
highlight the interplay between preorganization and steric interactions in
establishing favorable interactions for self-assembled hydrogen-bonded systems.

DOI: 10.1021/jo402500a 
PMCID: PMC4002384
PMID: 24377967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. J Phys Chem B. 2014 Jan 16;118(2):624-33. doi: 10.1021/jp410448y. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

Vibrational density of states and elastic properties of cross-linked polymers:
combining inelastic light and neutron scattering.

Crupi V(1), Fontana A, Giarola M, Longeville S, Majolino D, Mariotto G, Mele A,
Paciaroni A, Rossi B, Trotta F, Venuti V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Earth Sciences, University of Messina , CNISM UdR
Messina, Viale Ferdinando Stagno D'Alcontres 31, 98166 Messina, Italy.

The vibrational dynamics of a new class of cross-linked polymers made up of
cyclodextrins is here investigated in the microscopic range by the joint use of
light and inelastic neutron scattering experiments. The effect of increasing the 
connectivity of the polymeric network on the vibrational dynamics of the system
is studied by exploiting the complementarity of these two different probes. The
derived densities of vibrational states of the polymers evidence the presence of 
the characteristic anomalous excess of vibrational modes with respect to the
Debye level, already observed in the low-frequency Raman spectra and referred to 
as boson peak (BP). The overall analysis of the spectra suggests an emerging
picture in which the motions of hydrogen atoms of the polymers are progressively 
hampered when the cross-linking degree of the covalent network increases. At the 
same time, the frequency and intensity of the BP are found to significantly
change by increasing the cross-linking degree of the polymeric network, as
clearly suggested by the existence of a scaling-law for the BP evolution. These
findings support the conclusion that the growing of the covalent connectivity of 
the system induces a general modifications of the elastic properties of these
cyclodextrin-based polymers, which are, once again, modulated by the
cross-linking agent/cyclodextrin molar ratio.

DOI: 10.1021/jp410448y 
PMID: 24377328 


164. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):E159-67. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1306516111. Epub 2013 Dec 27.

Origins of R2* orientation dependence in gray and white matter.

Rudko DA(1), Klassen LM, de Chickera SN, Gati JS, Dekaban GA, Menon RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Western Ontario, London,
ON, Canada N6A 3K7.

Estimates of the apparent transverse relaxation rate (R2*) can be used to
quantify important properties of biological tissue. Surprisingly, the mechanism
of R2* dependence on tissue orientation is not well understood. The primary goal 
of this paper was to characterize orientation dependence of R2* in gray and white
matter and relate it to independent measurements of two other susceptibility
based parameters: the local Larmor frequency shift (fL) and quantitative volume
magnetic susceptibility (Δχ). Through this comparative analysis we calculated
scaling relations quantifying R2' (reversible contribution to the transverse
relaxation rate from local field inhomogeneities) in a voxel given measurements
of the local Larmor frequency shift. R2' is a measure of both perturber geometry 
and density and is related to tissue microstructure. Additionally, two methods
(the Generalized Lorentzian model and iterative dipole inversion) for calculating
Δχ were compared in gray and white matter. The value of Δχ derived from fitting
the Generalized Lorentzian model was then connected to the observed R2*
orientation dependence using image-registered optical density measurements from
histochemical staining. Our results demonstrate that the R2* and fL of white and 
cortical gray matter are well described by a sinusoidal dependence on the
orientation of the tissue and a linear dependence on the volume fraction of
myelin in the tissue. In deep brain gray matter structures, where there is no
obvious symmetry axis, R2* and fL have no orientation dependence but retain a
linear dependence on tissue iron concentration and hence Δχ.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1306516111 
PMCID: PMC3890825
PMID: 24374633  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. J Chem Inf Model. 2014 Jan 27;54(1):69-78. doi: 10.1021/ci400539q. Epub 2014 Jan 
6.

Halogen bond: its role beyond drug-target binding affinity for drug discovery and
development.

Xu Z(1), Yang Z, Liu Y, Lu Y, Chen K, Zhu W.

Author information: 
(1)Drug Discovery and Design Center, Key Laboratory of Receptor Research, State
Key Laboratory of Drug Research, Shanghai Institute of Materia Medica, Chinese
Academy of Sciences , Shanghai, 201203, China.

Halogen bond has attracted a great deal of attention in the past years for
hit-to-lead-to-candidate optimization aiming at improving drug-target binding
affinity. In general, heavy organohalogens (i.e., organochlorines,
organobromines, and organoiodines) are capable of forming halogen bonds while
organofluorines are not. In order to explore the possible roles that halogen
bonds could play beyond improving binding affinity, we performed a detailed
database survey and quantum chemistry calculation with close attention paid to
(1) the change of the ratio of heavy organohalogens to organofluorines along the 
drug discovery and development process and (2) the halogen bonds between
organohalogens and nonbiopolymers or nontarget biopolymers. Our database survey
revealed that (1) an obviously increasing trend of the ratio of heavy
organohalogens to organofluorines was observed along the drug discovery and
development process, illustrating that more organofluorines are worn and
eliminated than heavy organohalogens during the process, suggesting that heavy
halogens with the capability of forming halogen bonds should have priority for
lead optimization; and (2) more than 16% of the halogen bonds in PDB are formed
between organohalogens and water, and nearly 20% of the halogen bonds are formed 
with the proteins that are involved in the ADME/T process. Our QM/MM calculations
validated the contribution of the halogen bond to the binding between
organohalogens and plasma transport proteins. Thus, halogen bonds could play
roles not only in improving drug-target binding affinity but also in tuning
ADME/T property. Therefore, we suggest that albeit halogenation is a valuable
approach for improving ligand bioactivity, more attention should be paid in the
future to the application of the halogen bond for ligand ADME/T property
optimization.

DOI: 10.1021/ci400539q 
PMID: 24372485  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Phys Chem B. 2014 Jan 16;118(2):390-405. doi: 10.1021/jp407365x. Epub 2014 Jan 
7.

Enolization as an alternative proton delivery pathway in human aromatase (P450
19A1).

Krámos B(1), Oláh J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry, Budapest University of
Technology and Economics , Szent Gellért tér 4, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary.

Human aromatase catalyzes the last step of estrogen biosynthesis, the
aromatization of ring A of androstenedione (ASD) and testosterone leading to
estrone and estradiol. The enolization of the substrate molecule has been
suggested to play an essential role in this process. In this work using quantum
mechanical and hybrid QM/MM calculations, the reaction mechanism of enolization
was investigated. It is shown that the energetically unfavorable enolization of
andostenedione occurs in a coupled process with the energetically favorable
protonation of the ferrous superoxo complex (traditionally called ferric peroxo
complex) via a low barrier of about 5 kcal/mol. This mechanism implies an
alternative way for protonation of the ferrous superoxo complex to form compound 
0, which occurs via the Asp309-water-ASD proton delivery pathway instead of the
Asp-water-Thr pathway suggested for other P450 enzymes. It is also shown that
Thr310, which is known experimentally to be important for catalysis, plays a key 
role in the conversion of compound 0 to compound I.

DOI: 10.1021/jp407365x 
PMID: 24369956  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2014 Jan 22;6(2):1113-24. doi: 10.1021/am404700h. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Template and silica interlayer tailorable synthesis of spindle-like multilayer
α-Fe2O3/Ag/SnO2 ternary hybrid architectures and their enhanced photocatalytic
activity.

Sun L(1), Wu W, Yang S, Zhou J, Hong M, Xiao X, Ren F, Jiang C.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Artificial Micro- and Nano-structures of Ministry of
Education, School of Physics and Technology, Wuhan University , Wuhan, Hubei
430072, P. R. China.

Our study reports a novel iron oxide/noble metal/semiconductor ternary multilayer
hybrid structure that was synthesized through template synthesis and
layer-by-layer deposition. Three different morphologies of α-Fe2O3/Ag/SiO2/SnO2
hybrid architectures were obtained with different thicknesses of the SiO2
interlayer which was introduced for tailoring and controlling the coupling of
noble metal Ag nanoparticles (NPs) with the SnO2 semiconductor. The resulting
samples were characterized in terms of morphology, composition, and optical
property by various analytical techniques. The as-obtained α-Fe2O3/Ag/SiO2/SnO2
nanocomposites exhibit enhanced visible light or UV photocatalytic abilities,
remarkably superior to commercial pure SnO2 products, bare α-Fe2O3 seeds, and
α-Fe2O3/SnO2 nanocomposites. Moreover, the sample of α-Fe2O3/Ag/SiO2/SnO2 also
exhibits good chemical stability and recyclability because it has higher
photocatalytic activity even after eight cycles. The origin of enhanced
photocatalytic activity on the multilayer core-shell α-Fe2O3/Ag/SiO2/SnO2
nanocomposites was primarily ascribed to the coupling between noble metal Ag and 
the two semiconductors Fe2O3 and SnO2, which are proven to be applied in
recyclable photocatalysis.

DOI: 10.1021/am404700h 
PMID: 24369679 


168. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):33-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1315053111.
Epub 2013 Dec 24.

Rationale and mechanism for the low photoinactivation rate of bacteria in plasma.

Chen J(1), Cesario TC, Rentzepis PM.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory for Laser Plasmas (Ministry of Education) and Department of
Physics and Astronomy, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200240, China.

The rate of bacterial photoinactivation in plasma by methylene blue (MB),
especially for Gram-negative bacteria, has been reported to be lower, by about an
order of magnitude, than the rate of inactivation in PBS and water solutions.
This low inactivation rate we attribute to the bleaching of the 660-nm absorption
band of MB in plasma that results in low yields of MB triplet states and
consequently low singlet oxygen generation. We have recorded the change of the MB
660-nm-band optical density in plasma, albumin, and cysteine solutions, as a
function of time, after 661-nm excitation. The transient triplet spectra were
recorded and the singlet oxygen generated in these solutions was determined by
the rate of decrease in the intensity of the 399-nm absorption band of 9,
10-anthracene dipropionic acid. We attribute the bleaching of MB, low singlet
oxygen yield, and consequently the low inactivation rate of bacteria in plasma to
the attachment of a hydrogen atom, from the S-H group of cysteine, to the central
nitrogen atom of MB and formation of cysteine dimer.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1315053111 
PMCID: PMC3890829
PMID: 24368851  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2014 Jan 5;130:281-6. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.017. Epub 2013 Nov 28.

Spectroscopic analysis of the interaction of lomustine with calf thymus DNA.

Agarwal S(1), Jangir DK(1), Singh P(1), Mehrotra R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Quantum Optics and Photon Physics, CSIR-National Physical Laboratory, Dr. K.S.
Krishnan Marg, New Delhi 110012, India.
(2)Quantum Optics and Photon Physics, CSIR-National Physical Laboratory, Dr. K.S.
Krishnan Marg, New Delhi 110012, India. Electronic address:
ranjana@mail.nplindia.ernet.in.

Investigation of drug-DNA interaction is important for understanding the drug
action at molecular level and for designing specific DNA targeted drug. Lomustine
(CCNU=1-[2-chloroethyl]-3-cyclohexyl-1-nitroso-urea) is an alkylating
antineoplastic nitrosourea derivative, used to treat different types of cancer.
In the present study, conformational and structural effects of lomustine on DNA
are investigated using different spectroscopic approaches. Different drug/DNA
molar ratios are analyzed to determine the binding sites and binding mode of
lomustine with DNA. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopic (FTIR) results
suggest binding of lomustine with nitrogenous bases guanine and cytosine along
with weak interaction to the sugar-phosphate backbone of DNA. Circular dichroism 
(CD) spectroscopic results show perturbation in the local conformation of DNA
upon binding of lomustine with DNA helix. These local conformational changes may 
act as recognition site for alkylating enzymes that further causes alkylation of 
DNA. Spectroscopic results confirm the formation of an intermediate stage of DNA 
that occurs during the transition of B-conformation into A-conformation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.017 
PMID: 24368412  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2014 Jan 22;6(2):1219-27. doi: 10.1021/am404963u. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Nanoscale lamellar monoclinic Li(2)MnO(3) phase with stacking disordering in
lithium-rich and oxygen-deficient Li(1.07)Mn(1.93)O(4-δ) cathode materials.

Xu Z(1), Wang J, Zhang K, Zheng H, Dai ZX, Gui J, Yang XQ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Technology, Center for Electron Microscopy and MOE Key
Laboratory of Artificial Micro- and Nano-structures, Wuhan University , Wuhan
430072, China.

The powdered crystalline samples of nominal composition Li1.07Mn1.93O4-δ have
been investigated by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) combined with X-ray
powder diffraction (XRD) at room temperature. As suggested by the TEM
observation, the dominant phase of the particles is a cubic spinel Li1+αMn2-αO4-δ
with space group Fd3̅m. A monoclinic Li2MnO3 phase with C2/m space group was also
identified. Furthermore, the occurrence of nanoscale rotational twinning domains 
in Li2MnO3 with 120° rotation angles, stacked along the [103]m/[111]c ("m" and
"c" represent the monoclinic and cubic descriptions, respectively) axis was also 
observed. These nanoscale rotational twining domains are responsible for the
pseudo-3-fold axis and their formation is supported by the superstructure
reflections in selected-area electron-diffraction (SAED) patterns. Similar
patterns were reported in the literature but may have been misinterpreted without
the consideration of such domains. Consistent with the TEM observation, the XRD
results reveal the increasing percentage of monoclinic Li2MnO3 with increasing
annealing time, associated with more oxygen vacancies. In addition, the electron 
beam irradiation during TEM studies may cause the nucleation of nanoscale cubic
spinel Li-Mn-O crystallites on the monoclinic Li2MnO3 grains. These results
provide the detailed structural information about the Li1.07Mn1.93O4-δ samples
and advance the understanding of corresponding electrochemical properties of this
material as well as other layer structured cathode materials for lithium-ion
batteries.

DOI: 10.1021/am404963u 
PMID: 24368018 


171. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces. 2014 Jan 22;6(2):1125-30. doi: 10.1021/am404724u. Epub
2014 Jan 6.

Investigation of a Branchlike MoO(3)/polypyrrole hybrid with enhanced
electrochemical performance used as an electrode in supercapacitors.

Zhang X(1), Zeng X, Yang M, Qi Y.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Oxo Synthesis and Selective Oxidation, Lanzhou
Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences , Lanzhou 730000,
China.

A branchlike MoO3/polypyrrole conductive nanocomposite was facilely prepared by
wrapping a homogeneous polypyrrole (PPy) layer around MoO3 nanobelts via the in
situ oxidative polymerization of a self-assembled pyrrole monomer. X-ray powder
diffraction characterization demonstrated that the PPy polymer does not hinder
the crystallization of the MoO3 nanobelts substrate. The electrochemical tests
show that the specific capacitance of 129 F g(-1) for the MoO3/PPy hybrid is
higher than both pristine MoO3 and pure PPy. Moreover, the hybrid electrode with 
good electrical conductivity displays good cyclic stability of 90% retention
after 200 cycles of charge/discharge. These results indicate a promising
potential application of the MoO3/PPy nanocomposite for use as an effective
electrode material in supercapacitors.

DOI: 10.1021/am404724u 
PMID: 24367933 


172. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):15-20. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1315725111. 
Epub 2013 Dec 23.

Is the simplest chemical reaction really so simple?

Jankunas J(1), Sneha M, Zare RN, Bouakline F, Althorpe SC, Herráez-Aguilar D,
Aoiz FJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-5080.

Modern computational methods have become so powerful for predicting the outcome
for the H + H2 → H2 + H bimolecular exchange reaction that it might seem further 
experiments are not needed. Nevertheless, experiments have led the way to cause
theorists to look more deeply into this simplest of all chemical reactions. The
findings are less simple.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1315725111 
PMCID: PMC3890794
PMID: 24367084  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2014 Jan 5;130:254-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.025. Epub 2013 Dec 5.

Trypsin inhibitor complexes with human and bovine serum albumins: TEM and
spectroscopic analysis.

Hebia C(1), Bekale L(2), Chanphai P(2), Agbebavi J(3), Tajmir-Riahi HA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Industrial-Engineering, University of Québec at Trois-Rivières, 
C.P. 500, TR, Quebec G9A 5H7, Canada.
(2)Department of Chemistry-Physics, University of Québec at Trois-Rivières, C.P. 
500, TR, Quebec G9A 5H7, Canada.
(3)Department of Chemical-Engineering, University of Québec at Trois-Rivières,
C.P. 500, TR, Quebec G9A 5H7, Canada.
(4)Department of Chemistry-Physics, University of Québec at Trois-Rivières, C.P. 
500, TR, Quebec G9A 5H7, Canada. Electronic address: tajmirri@uqtr.ca.

We report the binding of trypsin inhibitor (TI) with human serum albumin (HSA)
and bovine serum albumin (BSA) at physiological conditions, using FTIR, CD,
UV-Visible spectroscopic methods and transmission electron microscopy (TEM).
Structural analysis showed that trypsin inhibitor binds HSA and BSA via
hydrophilic and hydrophobic contacts with overall binding constants of
KTI-HSA=1.4 (±0.5)×10(4)M(-1) and KTI-BSA=1.1 (±0.4)×10(6)M(-1). Trypsin
inhibitor complexation induces minor reduction of the protein α-helix and a major
increase in β-sheet structure. TEM images show that trypsin inhibitor complex
formation leads to the protein aggregation and fibrillation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.025 
PMID: 24362321  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):552-61. doi: 10.1021/ic402658d. Epub 2013 Dec 20.

Alkaline-earth metal carboxylates characterized by 43Ca and 87Sr solid-state NMR:
impact of metal-amine bonding.

Burgess KM(1), Xu Y, Leclerc MC, Bryce DL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Centre for Catalysis Research and Innovation,
University of Ottawa , 10 Marie Curie Private, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1N 6N5.

A series of calcium and strontium complexes featuring aryl carboxylate ligands
has been prepared and characterized by alkaline-earth ((43)Ca and (87)Sr)
solid-state NMR experiments in a magnetic field of 21.1 T. In the 11 compounds
studied as part of this work, a range of coordination motifs are observed
including nitrogen atom binding to Ca(2+) and Sr(2+), a binding mode which has
not been investigated previously by (43)Ca or (87)Sr solid-state NMR. (43)Ca
isotopic enrichment has enabled the full characterization of the (43)Ca electric 
field gradient (EFG) and chemical shift tensors of the two calcium sites in
calcium p-aminosalicylate (Ca(pams)), where both NMR interactions are affected by
the presence of a nitrogen atom in the first coordination sphere of one of the
metal sites. The (43)Ca isotropic chemical shift is sensitive to the Ca-N
distance as exemplified by the NMR parameters of a second form of Ca(pams) and
density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Studies of the strontium analogue, 
Sr(pams), confirm a similar sensitivity of the (87)Sr EFG tensor to the presence 
or absence of nitrogen in the first coordination sphere. To our knowledge, this
is the first systematic (87)Sr NMR study of strontium complexes featuring organic
ligands. The |CQ((87)Sr)| values are found to be sensitive to the coordination
number about Sr(2+). In general, this work has also established a larger data set
of reliable experimental |CQ((43)Ca)| values which correlate well with those
obtained using gauge-including projector-augmented-wave (GIPAW) DFT calculations.
It is found that the use of a recently recommended quadrupole moment for (43)Ca, 
-44.4 mbarn, improves the agreement with experimental values. This contribution
lays the groundwork for the interpretation of (43)Ca and (87)Sr NMR spectra of
more challenging systems, particularly where nitrogen-alkaline earth metal
bonding is occurring.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402658d 
PMID: 24359541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Org Chem. 2014 Jan 17;79(2):742-51. doi: 10.1021/jo4026012. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Bidentate urea derivatives of p-tert-butyldihomooxacalix[4]arene: neutral
receptors for anion complexation.

Marcos PM(1), Teixeira FA, Segurado MA, Ascenso JR, Bernardino RJ, Michel S,
Hubscher-Bruder V.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Ciências Moleculares e Materiais, Faculdade de Ciências da
Universidade de Lisboa , Edifício C8, 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal.

Three new bidentate ureidodihomooxacalix[4]arene derivatives (phenyl 5a, n-propyl
5b, and tert-butyl 5c) were synthesized in four steps from the parent compound
p-tert-butyldihomooxacalix[4]arene and obtained in the cone conformation, as
shown by NMR studies. The binding ability of these neutral receptors toward
spherical, linear, trigonal planar, and tetrahedrical anions was assessed by (1)H
NMR and UV-vis titrations. The structures and complexation energies of some
complexes were also studied by DFT methods. The data showed that the association 
constants are strongly dependent on the nature of the substituent (aryl/alkyl) at
the urea moiety. In general, for all the receptors, the association constants
decrease with decrease of anion basicity. Ph-urea 5a is the best anion receptor, 
showing the strongest complexation for F(-) (log K(assoc) = 3.10 in CDCl3) and
also high binding affinity for the carboxylates AcO(-) and BzO(-). Similar
results were obtained by UV-vis studies and were also corroborated by DFT
calculations.

DOI: 10.1021/jo4026012 
PMID: 24358937  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Anal Chim Acta. 2014 Jan 7;807:120-5. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.11.011. Epub 2013
Nov 16.

A non-aggregation colorimetric assay for thrombin based on catalytic properties
of silver nanoparticles.

Li J(1), Li W(1), Qiang W(1), Wang X(1), Li H(1), Xu D(2).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, School of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, School of
Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, China.
Electronic address: xudanke@nju.edu.cn.

In this paper, we developed a simple and rapid colorimetric assay for protein
detection based on the reduction of dye molecules catalyzed by silver
nanoparticles (AgNPs). Aptamer-modified magnetic particles and
aptamer-functionalized AgNPs were employed as capture and detection probes,
respectively. Introduction of thrombin as target protein could form a
sandwich-type complex involving catalytically active AgNPs, whose catalytic
activity was monitored on the catalytic reduction of rhodamine B (RhB) by sodium 
borohydride (NaBH4). The amount of immobilized AgNPs on the complex increased
along with the increase of the thrombin concentration, thus the detection of
thrombin was achieved via recording the decrease in absorbance corresponding to
RhB. This method has adopted several advantages from the key factors involved,
i.e., the sandwich binding of affinity aptamers contributed to the increased
specificity; magnetic particles could result in rapid capture and separation
processes; the conjugation of AgNPs would lead to a clear visual detection. It
allows for the detection limit of thrombin down to picomolar level by the naked
eye, with remarkable selectivity over other proteins. Moreover, it is possible to
apply this method to the other targets with two binding sites as well.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.11.011 
PMID: 24356228  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Org Chem. 2014 Jan 17;79(2):752-8. doi: 10.1021/jo402627s. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Analysis of seven-membered lactones by computational NMR methods: proton NMR
chemical shift data are more discriminating than carbon.

Marell DJ(1), Emond SJ, Kulshrestha A, Hoye TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Minnesota , Minneapolis, Minnesota
55455, United States.

We report an NMR chemical shift study of conformationally challenging
seven-membered lactones (1-11); computed and experimental data sets are compared.
The computations involved full conformational analysis of each lactone,
Boltzmann-weighted averaging of the chemical shifts across all conformers, and
linear correction of the computed chemical shifts. DFT geometry optimizations
[M06-2X/6-31+G(d,p)] and GIAO NMR chemical shift calculations
[B3LYP/6-311+G(2d,p)] provided the computed chemical shifts. The corrected mean
absolute error (CMAE), the average of the differences between the computed and
experimental chemical shifts for each of the 11 lactones, is encouragingly small 
(0.02-0.08 ppm for (1)H or 0.8-2.2 ppm for (13)C). Three pairs of cis versus
trans diastereomeric lactones were used to assess the ability of the method to
distinguish between stereoisomers. The experimental shifts were compared with the
computed shifts for each of the two possible isomers. We introduce the use of a
"match ratio"--the ratio of the larger CMAE (worse fit) to the smaller CMAE
(better fit). A greater match ratio value indicates better distinguishing
ability. The match ratios are larger for proton data [2.4-4.0 (av = 3.2)] than
for carbon [1.1-2.3 (av = 1.6)], indicating that the former provide a better
basis for discriminating these diastereomers.

DOI: 10.1021/jo402627s 
PMCID: PMC3955734
PMID: 24354614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. J Phys Chem A. 2014 Jan 16;118(2):427-40. doi: 10.1021/jp4082905. Epub 2014 Jan
7.

First ring formation by radical addition of propargyl to but-1-ene-3-yne in
combustion. Theoretical study of the C7H7 radical system.

Trogolo D(1), Maranzana A, Ghigo G, Tonachini G.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Chimica, Università di Torino , Corso Massimo D'Azeglio 48,
I-10125 Torino, Italy.

Combustive formation of a first carbon ring is an important step in the growth of
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and soot platelets. Propargyl radical
addition to but-1-ene-3-yne (vinylacetylene) can start this process, possibly
forming 5-, 6-, and 7-membered rings. A variety of partially intertwined reaction
pathways results from density functional theory (DFT), which indicates three C7H7
radicals, benzyl, tropyl, and vinylcyclopentadienyl, as particularly stable. DFT 
energetics forms a basis for a subsequent Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM)
study at different combustion pressures and temperatures (P = 30-0.01 atm; T =
1200-2400 K). RRKM indicates open-chain structures and 5-rings as the most
important products. Open-chain structures, whose main contributors are the
initial adducts, are favored by lower T and higher P, while 5-rings are favored
by higher T and lower P. The main feature is that the declining yield in
open-chain structures with rising T almost mirrors, at all pressures, the growth 
with T exhibited by 5-rings (main contributor: fulvenallene). Thus, the two yield
lines for open chains and 5-rings cross at some T, and their crossing moves
toward lower T values as lower P values are considered. Because the T dependence 
of the yields (slope of the lines) is more pronounced in the T range close to the
line crossing, it also becomes less pronounced at the lowest P values considered 
because the crossing region falls at very low T values. Another constant trait is
that 6-rings (mainly benzyl radical) are the third contributor, though they are
present at most with a modest maximum yield of 2.4-2.7% in a T range which moves 
toward lower T as P is reduced.

DOI: 10.1021/jp4082905 
PMID: 24354452  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):359-64. doi: 10.1021/ic402292a. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Solution-chemical route to generalized synthesis of metal germanate nanowires
with room-temperature, light-driven hydrogenation activity of CO2 into renewable 
hydrocarbon fuels.

Liu Q(1), Zhou Y, Tu W, Yan S, Zou Z.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Modern Acoustics, MOE, Institute of Acoustics, School of
Physics, ⊥National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, School of Physics, 
Ecomaterials and Renewable Energy Research Center (ERERC), †ERERC, Department of 
Materials Science and Engineering, and ∥ERERC, School of Physics, Nanjing
University , Nanjing 210093, People's Republic of China.

A facile solution-chemical route was developed for the generalized preparation of
a family of highly uniform metal germanate nanowires on a large scale. This route
is based on the use of hydrazine monohydrate/H2O as a mixed solvent under
solvothermal conditions. Hydrazine has multiple effects on the generation of the 
nanowires: as an alkali solvent, a coordination agent, and crystal anisotropic
growth director. Different-percentage cobalt-doped Cd2Ge2O6 nanowires were also
successfully obtained through the addition of Co(OAc)2·4H2O to the initial
reaction mixture for future investigation of the magnetic properties of these
nanowires. The considerably negative conduction band level of the Cd2Ge2O6
nanowire offers a high driving force for photogenerated electron transfer to CO2 
under UV-vis illumination, which facilitates CO2 photocatalytic reduction to a
renewable hydrocarbon fuel in the presence of water vapor at room temperature.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402292a 
PMID: 24354308 


180. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):85-96. doi: 10.1021/ic4015493. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Influence of the coordination environment of zinc(II) complexes of designed
Mannich ligands on phosphatase activity: a combined experimental and theoretical 
study.

Sanyal R(1), Guha A, Ghosh T, Mondal TK, Zangrando E, Das D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Calcutta , 92, A. P. C. Road, Kolkata
700009, India.

A mononucleating (HL(1)) and a dinucleating (HL(2)) "end-off" compartmental
ligand have been designed and synthesized by controlled Mannich reaction using
p-cresol and bis(2-methoxyethyl)amine, and their formation has been rationalized.
Six complexes have been prepared on treating HL(1) and HL(2) with Zn(II)X2 (X =
Cl(-), Br(-), I(-)) with the aim to investigate their hydrolytic activity on
phosphoester bond cleavage. Interestingly, the mononucleating ligand was observed
to yield dinuclear complexes, [Zn2(L(1))2X2] (1-3), while the potential
dinucleating ligand generated mononuclear complexes, [Zn(HL(2))X2] (4-6). Four
(1-4), out of six complexes studied, were characterized by single-crystal X-ray
diffraction (XRD): the Zn ion exhibits trigonal bipyramidal and tetrahedral
coordination spheres in the di- and mononuclear complex, respectively. The
hydrolytic kinetics, followed spectrophotometrically with 4-nitrophenylphosphate 
(4-NPP) in buffered dimethylformamide (DMF) (97.5% DMF, v/v) because of
solubility reasons, under excess substrate conditions (substrate:complex = 20:1),
indicated that the complexes enormously accelerate the rate of phosphomonoester
hydrolysis with first order rate constants (kcat) in the range 2-10 s(-1) at 25
°C. In each case kinetic data analyses have been run by Michaelis-Menten
treatment. The efficacy in the order of conversion of substrate to product
(p-nitrophenolate ion) follows the trend 1 > 2 > 3 > 4 > 5 > 6, and the ratio of 
kcat of an analogous dinuclear to mononuclear complex is ≃2. An electrospray
ionization-mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) study has revealed the dissociation of the 
centrosymmetric dinuclear complex to two mononuclear species instead of a
syn-cooperative catalysis. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations have been
performed to rationalize our proposed mechanistic pathway for phosphatase
activity. The comparative analysis concludes the following facts under
experimental conditions: (1) the halide bound to the active site affects the
overall rate in the order: Cl(-) > Br(-) > I(-) regardless of nuclearity; (2)
dinuclear complexes prevail over the mononuclear ones.

DOI: 10.1021/ic4015493 
PMID: 24354306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):63-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1321160111.
Epub 2013 Dec 18.

Fe-vacancy order and superconductivity in tetragonal β-Fe1-xSe.

Chen TK(1), Chang CC, Chang HH, Fang AH, Wang CH, Chao WH, Tseng CM, Lee YC, Wu
YR, Wen MH, Tang HY, Chen FR, Wang MJ, Wu MK, Van Dyck D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics, Academia Sinica, Taipei 115, Taiwan.

Several superconducting transition temperatures in the range of 30-46 K were
reported in the recently discovered intercalated FeSe system (A1-xFe2-ySe2, A =
K, Rb, Cs, Tl). Although the superconducting phases were not yet conclusively
decided, more than one magnetic phase with particular orders of iron vacancy
and/or potassium vacancy were identified, and some were argued to be the parent
phase. Here we show the discovery of the presence and ordering of iron vacancy in
nonintercalated FeSe (PbO-type tetragonal β-Fe1-xSe). Three types of iron-vacancy
order were found through analytical electron microscopy, and one was identified
to be nonsuperconducting and magnetic at low temperature. This discovery suggests
that the rich-phases found in A1-xFe2-ySe2 are not exclusive in Fe-Se and related
superconductors. In addition, the magnetic β-Fe1-xSe phases with particular
iron-vacancy orders are more likely to be the parent phase of the FeSe
superconducting system instead of the previously assigned β-Fe1+δTe.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321160111 
PMCID: PMC3890877
PMID: 24351933 


182. J Med Chem. 2014 Jun 26;57(12):4977-5010. doi: 10.1021/jm4004285. Epub 2014 Jan
6.

QSAR modeling: where have you been? Where are you going to?

Cherkasov A(1), Muratov EN, Fourches D, Varnek A, Baskin II, Cronin M, Dearden J,
Gramatica P, Martin YC, Todeschini R, Consonni V, Kuz'min VE, Cramer R, Benigni
R, Yang C, Rathman J, Terfloth L, Gasteiger J, Richard A, Tropsha A.

Author information: 
(1)Vancouver Prostate Centre, University of British Columbia , Vancouver, British
Columbia, V6H3Z6, Canada.

Quantitative structure-activity relationship modeling is one of the major
computational tools employed in medicinal chemistry. However, throughout its
entire history it has drawn both praise and criticism concerning its reliability,
limitations, successes, and failures. In this paper, we discuss (i) the
development and evolution of QSAR; (ii) the current trends, unsolved problems,
and pressing challenges; and (iii) several novel and emerging applications of
QSAR modeling. Throughout this discussion, we provide guidelines for QSAR
development, validation, and application, which are summarized in best practices 
for building rigorously validated and externally predictive QSAR models. We hope 
that this Perspective will help communications between computational and
experimental chemists toward collaborative development and use of QSAR models. We
also believe that the guidelines presented here will help journal editors and
reviewers apply more stringent scientific standards to manuscripts reporting new 
QSAR studies, as well as encourage the use of high quality, validated QSARs for
regulatory decision making.

DOI: 10.1021/jm4004285 
PMCID: PMC4074254
PMID: 24351051  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2014 Jan 5;130:217-25. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.016. Epub 2013 Nov 26.

Effects of habitat light conditions on the excitation quenching pathways in
desiccating Haberlea rhodopensis leaves: an Intelligent FluoroSensor study.

Solti Á(1), Lenk S(2), Mihailova G(3), Mayer P(4), Barócsi A(5), Georgieva K(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Plant Physiology and Molecular Plant Biology, Eötvös Loránd
University, Pázmány P. sétány 1/C, H-1117 Budapest, Hungary. Electronic address: 
sadambio@elte.hu.
(2)Department of Atomic Physics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics,
Budafoki út 8, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. Electronic address: lenk@eik.bme.hu.
(3)Institute of Plant Physiology and Genetics, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences,
Akad. Georgi Bonchev Str., Bl. 21, BG-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address:
gkm_rw@abv.bg.
(4)Department of Atomic Physics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics,
Budafoki út 8, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Department of Atomic Physics, Budapest University of Technology and Economics,
Budafoki út 8, H-1111 Budapest, Hungary. Electronic address: barocsi@eik.bme.hu.
(6)Institute of Plant Physiology and Genetics, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences,
Akad. Georgi Bonchev Str., Bl. 21, BG-1113 Sofia, Bulgaria. Electronic address:
katya@bio21.bas.bg.

Resurrection plants can survive dehydration to air-dry state, thus they are
excellent models of understanding drought and dehydration tolerance mechanisms.
Haberlea rhodopensis, a chlorophyll-retaining resurrection plant, can survive
desiccation to relative water content below 10%. Leaves, detached from plants of 
sun and shade habitats, were moderately (∼50%) dehydrated in darkness. During
desiccation, chlorophyll a fluorescence was detected by the recently innovated
wireless Intelligent FluoroSensor (IFS) chlorophyll fluorometer, working with
three different detectors: a pulse-amplitude-modulated (PAM) broadband channel
and two channels to measure non-modulated red and far-red fluorescence. No change
in area-based chlorophyll content of leaves was observed. The maximal quantum
efficiency of photosystem II decreased gradually in both shade and sun leaves.
Shade leaves could not increase antennae-based quenching, thus inactivated
photosystem II took part in quenching of excess irradiation. Sun leaves seemed to
be pre-adapted to quench excess light as they established an intensive increase
in antennae-based non-photochemical quenching parallel to desiccation. The higher
far-red to red antennae-based quenching may sign light-harvesting complex
reorganization. Thus, compared to PAM, IFS chlorophyll fluorometer has additional
benefits including (i) parallel estimation of changes in the Chl content and (ii)
prediction of underlying processes of excitation energy quenching.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.016 
PMID: 24345600  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):149-54. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1316609111.
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Quantum mechanical calculations suggest that lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases 
use a copper-oxyl, oxygen-rebound mechanism.

Kim S(1), Ståhlberg J, Sandgren M, Paton RS, Beckham GT.

Author information: 
(1)National Bioenergy Center, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
80202.

Lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) exhibit a mononuclear
copper-containing active site and use dioxygen and a reducing agent to
oxidatively cleave glycosidic linkages in polysaccharides. LPMOs represent a
unique paradigm in carbohydrate turnover and exhibit synergy with hydrolytic
enzymes in biomass depolymerization. To date, several features of copper binding 
to LPMOs have been elucidated, but the identity of the reactive oxygen species
and the key steps in the oxidative mechanism have not been elucidated. Here,
density functional theory calculations are used with an enzyme active site model 
to identify the reactive oxygen species and compare two hypothesized reaction
pathways in LPMOs for hydrogen abstraction and polysaccharide hydroxylation;
namely, a mechanism that employs a η(1)-superoxo intermediate, which abstracts a 
substrate hydrogen and a hydroperoxo species is responsible for substrate
hydroxylation, and a mechanism wherein a copper-oxyl radical abstracts a hydrogen
and subsequently hydroxylates the substrate via an oxygen-rebound mechanism. The 
results predict that oxygen binds end-on (η(1)) to copper, and that a
copper-oxyl-mediated, oxygen-rebound mechanism is energetically preferred. The
N-terminal histidine methylation is also examined, which is thought to modify the
structure and reactivity of the enzyme. Density functional theory calculations
suggest that this posttranslational modification has only a minor effect on the
LPMO active site structure or reactivity for the examined steps. Overall, this
study suggests the steps in the LPMO mechanism for oxidative cleavage of
glycosidic bonds.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1316609111 
PMCID: PMC3890868
PMID: 24344312  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):179-84. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1314993111.
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Large effect of membrane tension on the fluid-solid phase transitions of
two-component phosphatidylcholine vesicles.

Chen D(1), Santore MM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Physics and Polymer Science and Engineering, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003.

Model phospholipid membranes and vesicles have long provided insight into the
nature of confined materials and membranes while also providing a platform for
drug delivery. The rich thermodynamic behavior and interesting domain shapes in
these membranes have previously been mapped in extensive studies that vary
temperature and composition; however, the thermodynamic impact of tension on
bilayers has been restricted to recent reports of subtly reduced fluid-fluid
transition temperatures. In two-component phosphatidylcholine unilamellar
vesicles [1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine
(DOPC)/1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DPPC)], we report a dramatic 
influence of tension on the fluid-solid transition and resulting phases: At fixed
composition, systematic variations in tension produce differently shaped solid
domains (striped or irregular hexagons), shift fluid-solid transition
temperatures, and produce a triple-point-like intersection of coexistence curves 
at elevated tensions, about 3 mN/m for 30% DOPC/70% DPPC. Tension therefore
represents a potential switch of microstructure in responsive engineered
materials; it is an important morphology-determining variable in confined
systems, and, in biological membranes, it may provide a means to regulate dynamic
structure.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1314993111 
PMCID: PMC3890780
PMID: 24344297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):556-61. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1314114111.
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Direct observation of single stationary-phase bacteria reveals a surprisingly
long period of constant protein production activity.

Gefen O(1), Fridman O, Ronin I, Balaban NQ.

Author information: 
(1)Racah Institute for Physics, and Center for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology,
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 9270001, Israel.

Exponentially growing bacteria are rarely found in the wild, as microorganisms
tend to spend most of their lifetime at stationary phase. Despite this general
prevalence of stationary-phase bacteria, they are as yet poorly characterized.
Our goal was to quantitatively study this phase by direct observation of single
bacteria as they enter into stationary phase and by monitoring their activity
over several days during growth arrest. For this purpose, we devised an
experimental procedure for starving single Escherichia coli bacteria in
microfluidic devices and measured their activity by monitoring the production
rate of fluorescent proteins. When amino acids were the sole carbon source, the
production rate decreased by an order of magnitude upon entry into stationary
phase. We found that, even while growth-arrested, bacteria continued to produce
proteins at a surprisingly constant rate over several days. Our identification of
this newly observed period of constant activity in nongrowing cells, designated
as constant activity stationary phase, makes possible the conduction of assays
that require constant protein expression over time, and are therefore difficult
to perform under exponential growth conditions. Moreover, we show that exogenous 
protein expression bears no fitness cost on the regrowth of the population when
starvation ends. Further characterization of constant activity stationary phase-a
phase where nongrowing bacteria can be quantitatively studied over several days
in a reproducible manner-should contribute to a better understanding of this
ubiquitous but overlooked physiological state of bacteria in nature.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1314114111 
PMCID: PMC3890821
PMID: 24344288  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):463-8. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1321612111. 
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Local domains of motor cortical activity revealed by fiber-optic calcium
recordings in behaving nonhuman primates.

Adelsberger H(1), Zainos A, Alvarez M, Romo R, Konnerth A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, SyNergy Cluster and Center for Integrated Protein
Science, Technische Universität München, 80802 Munich, Germany.

Brain mapping experiments involving electrical microstimulation indicate that the
primary motor cortex (M1) directly regulates muscle contraction and thereby
controls specific movements. Possibly, M1 contains a small circuit "map" of the
body that is formed by discrete local networks that code for specific movements. 
Alternatively, movements may be controlled by distributed, larger-scale
overlapping circuits. Because of technical limitations, it remained unclear how
movement-determining circuits are organized in M1. Here we introduce a method
that allows the functional mapping of small local neuronal circuits in awake
behaving nonhuman primates. For this purpose, we combined optic-fiber-based
calcium recordings of neuronal activity and cortical microstimulation. The method
requires targeted bulk loading of synthetic calcium indicators (e.g., OGB-1 AM)
for the staining of neuronal microdomains. The tip of a thin (200 µm) optical
fiber can detect the coherent activity of a small cluster of neurons, but is
insensitive to the asynchronous activity of individual cells. By combining such
optical recordings with microstimulation at two well-separated sites of M1, we
demonstrate that local cortical activity was tightly associated with distinct and
stereotypical simple movements. Increasing stimulation intensity increased both
the amplitude of the movements and the level of neuronal activity. Importantly,
the activity remained local, without invading the recording domain of the second 
optical fiber. Furthermore, there was clear response specificity at the two
recording sites in a trained behavioral task. Thus, the results provide support
for movement control in M1 by local neuronal clusters that are organized in
discrete cortical domains.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321612111 
PMCID: PMC3890885
PMID: 24344287  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jan 7;111(1):544-9. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1320396110. 
Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Growth feedback as a basis for persister bistability.

Feng J(1), Kessler DA, Ben-Jacob E, Levine H.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Theoretical Biological Physics and Department of Bioengineering,
Rice University, Houston, TX 77005.

A small fraction of cells in many bacterial populations, called persisters, are
much less sensitive to antibiotic treatment than the majority. Persisters are in 
a dormant metabolic state, even while remaining genetically identical to the
actively growing cells. Toxin and antitoxin modules in bacteria are believed to
be one possible cause of persistence. A two-gene operon, HipBA, is one of many
chromosomally encoded toxin and antitoxin modules in Escherichia coli and the
HipA7 allelic variant was the first validated high-persistence mutant. Here, we
present a stochastic model that can generate bistability of the HipBA system, via
the reciprocal coupling of free HipA to the cellular growth rate. The actively
growing state and the dormant state each correspond to a stable state of this
model. Fluctuations enable transitions from one to the other. This model is fully
in agreement with experimental data obtained with synthetic promoter constructs.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1320396110 
PMCID: PMC3890803
PMID: 24344277  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. ACS Nano. 2014 Jan 28;8(1):771-9. doi: 10.1021/nn405433y. Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Construction and manipulation of functional three-dimensional droplet networks.

Wauer T(1), Gerlach H, Mantri S, Hill J, Bayley H, Sapra KT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Oxford , Oxford OX1 3TA, United
Kingdom.

Previously, we reported the manual assembly of lipid-coated aqueous droplets in
oil to form two-dimensional (2D) networks in which the droplets are connected
through single lipid bilayers. Here we assemble lipid-coated droplets in robust, 
freestanding 3D geometries: for example, a 14-droplet pyramidal assembly. The
networks are designed, and each droplet is placed in a designated position. When 
protein pores are inserted in the bilayers between specific constituent droplets,
electrical and chemical communication pathways are generated. We further describe
an improved means to construct 3D droplet networks with defined organizations by 
the manipulation of aqueous droplets containing encapsulated magnetic beads. The 
droplets are maneuvered in a magnetic field to form simple construction modules, 
which are then used to form larger 2D and 3D structures including a 10-droplet
pyramid. A methodology to construct freestanding, functional 3D droplet networks 
is an important step toward the programmed and automated manufacture of synthetic
minimal tissues.

DOI: 10.1021/nn405433y 
PMID: 24341760  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):409-22. doi: 10.1021/ic402387b. Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Synthesis and photochemical properties of pH responsive tris-cyclometalated
iridium(III) complexes that contain a pyridine ring on the 2-phenylpyridine
ligand.

Nakagawa A(1), Hisamatsu Y, Moromizato S, Kohno M, Aoki S.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences and ‡Center for Technologies against
Cancer, Tokyo University of Science , 2641 Yamazaki, Noda, Chiba 278-8510, Japan.

In our previous publication, it was reported that fac-Ir(atpy)3 3 (atpy =
2-(5'-amino-4'-tolyl)pyridine), which contains three amino groups at the
5'-position of the atpy ligands, exhibits a pH-dependent change in the color of
the emitted radiation. Aqueous solution of 3 shows a weak red emission (at around
613 nm) under neutral or basic conditions, but the emission color changes to
green (at around 530 nm) under acidic conditions, where the NH2 group is
protonated to become an electron-withdrawing (NH3)(+) group. In this manuscript, 
we report on the preparation of some new pH-responsive Ir(III) complexes;
fac-Ir(4Pyppy)3 5 and fac-Ir(3Pyppy)3 6 that contain three pyridyl groups at the 
5'-position of the 2-phenylpyridine (ppy) ligand, and Ir(4Pyppym)3 7 and
Ir(3Pyppym)3 8 that contain a pyridyl group at the same position of the
2-phenylpyrimidine (ppym) ligand. The introduction of three pyridyl groups on
iodinated Ir(ppy)3 and Ir(ppym)3 was achieved via Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling
reaction assisted by microwave irradiation. Solutions of the acid-free Ir(III)
complexes 5, 6, 7, and 8 showed a strong green emission (at around 500 nm) in
dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Protonation of three pyridyl groups of 5 and 7 causes a
significant red-shift in the emission wavelength (at around 600 nm) with a
decrease in emission intensity. The pH-dependent emission change of these
complexes is also discussed. The generation of singlet oxygen ((1)O2) by the
photoirradiation of the Ir complexes 5 and 6 was evidenced by the decomposition
of 1,3-diphenylisobenzofuran (DPBF), the oxidation of thioanisole, and the
oxidation of 2,2,5,5-tetramethyl-3-pyrroline-3-carboxamide (TPC). The induction
of necrosis-like cell death of HeLa-S3 cells upon photoirradiation of 5 at 465 nm
is also reported.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402387b 
PMID: 24341415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Chemistry. 2014 Jan 7;20(2):435-46. doi: 10.1002/chem.201303282. Epub 2013 Dec
11.

Quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics study on the oxygen binding and substrate
hydroxylation step in AlkB repair enzymes.

Quesne MG(1), Latifi R, Gonzalez-Ovalle LE, Kumar D, de Visser SP.

Author information: 
(1)Manchester Institute of Biotechnology and School of Chemical Engineering and
Analytical Science, The University of Manchester, 131 Princess Street, Manchester
M1 7DN (UK).

AlkB repair enzymes are important nonheme iron enzymes that catalyse the
demethylation of alkylated DNA bases in humans, which is a vital reaction in the 
body that heals externally damaged DNA bases. Its mechanism is currently
controversial and in order to resolve the catalytic mechanism of these enzymes, a
quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM) study was performed on the
demethylation of the N(1) -methyladenine fragment by AlkB repair enzymes.
Firstly, the initial modelling identified the oxygen binding site of the enzyme. 
Secondly, the oxygen activation mechanism was investigated and a novel pathway
was found, whereby the catalytically active iron(IV)-oxo intermediate in the
catalytic cycle undergoes an initial isomerisation assisted by an Arg residue in 
the substrate binding pocket, which then brings the oxo group in close contact
with the methyl group of the alkylated DNA base. This enables a subsequent
rate-determining hydrogen-atom abstraction on competitive σ- and π-pathways on a 
quintet spin-state surface. These findings give evidence of different locations
of the oxygen and substrate binding channels in the enzyme and the origin of the 
separation of the oxygen-bound intermediates in the catalytic cycle from
substrate. Our studies are compared with small model complexes and the effect of 
protein and environment on the kinetics and mechanism is explained.

© 2013 The Authors. Published by Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA. This is an
open access article under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, 
which permits use, distribution and reproduction in any medium, provided the
original work is properly cited.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.201303282 
PMCID: PMC3994944
PMID: 24339041  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Phys Med Biol. 2014 Jan 6;59(1):83-96. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/83. Epub 2013 
Dec 12.

Experimental verification of ion stopping power prediction from dual energy CT
data in tissue surrogates.

Hünemohr N(1), Krauss B, Tremmel C, Ackermann B, Jäkel O, Greilich S.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Physics in Radiation Oncology, German Cancer Research
Center, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Phys Med Biol. 2014 Nov 21;59(22):7085-7.
    Phys Med Biol. 2014 Nov 21;59(22):7081-4.

We present an experimental verification of stopping-power-ratio (SPR) prediction 
from dual energy CT (DECT) with potential use for dose planning in proton and ion
therapy. The approach is based on DECT images converted to electron density
relative to water ϱe/ϱe, w and effective atomic number Zeff. To establish a
parameterization of the I-value by Zeff, 71 tabulated tissue compositions were
used. For the experimental assessment of the method we scanned 20 materials
(tissue surrogates, polymers, aluminum, titanium) at 80/140Sn kVp and 100/140Sn
kVp (Sn: additional tin filtration) and computed the ϱe/ϱe, w and Zeff with a
purely image based algorithm. Thereby, we found that ϱe/ϱe, w (Zeff) could be
determined with an accuracy of 0.4% (1.7%) for the tissue surrogates with known
elemental compositions. SPRs were predicted from DECT images for all 20 materials
using the presented approach and were compared to measured water-equivalent path 
lengths (closely related to SPR). For the tissue surrogates the presented DECT
approach was found to predict the experimental values within 0.6%, for aluminum
and titanium within an accuracy of 1.7% and 9.4% (from 16-bit reconstructed DECT 
images).

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/83 
PMID: 24334601  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Phys Med Biol. 2014 Jan 6;59(1):173-88. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/173. Epub
2013 Dec 13.

Direct dose mapping versus energy/mass transfer mapping for 4D dose accumulation:
fundamental differences and dosimetric consequences.

Li HS(1), Zhong H, Kim J, Glide-Hurst C, Gulam M, Nurushev TS, Chetty IJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, MI 48202,
USA.

The direct dose mapping (DDM) and energy/mass transfer (EMT) mapping are two
essential algorithms for accumulating the dose from different anatomic phases to 
the reference phase when there is organ motion or tumor/tissue deformation during
the delivery of radiation therapy. DDM is based on interpolation of the dose
values from one dose grid to another and thus lacks rigor in defining the dose
when there are multiple dose values mapped to one dose voxel in the reference
phase due to tissue/tumor deformation. On the other hand, EMT counts the total
energy and mass transferred to each voxel in the reference phase and calculates
the dose by dividing the energy by mass. Therefore it is based on fundamentally
sound physics principles. In this study, we implemented the two algorithms and
integrated them within the Eclipse treatment planning system. We then compared
the clinical dosimetric difference between the two algorithms for ten lung cancer
patients receiving stereotactic radiosurgery treatment, by accumulating the
delivered dose to the end-of-exhale (EE) phase. Specifically, the respiratory
period was divided into ten phases and the dose to each phase was calculated and 
mapped to the EE phase and then accumulated. The displacement vector field
generated by Demons-based registration of the source and reference images was
used to transfer the dose and energy. The DDM and EMT algorithms produced
noticeably different cumulative dose in the regions with sharp mass density
variations and/or high dose gradients. For the planning target volume (PTV) and
internal target volume (ITV) minimum dose, the difference was up to 11% and 4%
respectively. This suggests that DDM might not be adequate for obtaining an
accurate dose distribution of the cumulative plan, instead, EMT should be
considered.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/173 
PMCID: PMC3980482
PMID: 24334328  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2014 Jan 5;130:153-60. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.006. Epub 2013 Nov 25.

Fluorescence spectroscopic characterization of salivary metabolites of oral
cancer patients.

Yuvaraj M(1), Udayakumar K(1), Jayanth V(2), Prakasa Rao A(1), Bharanidharan
G(1), Koteeswaran D(2), Munusamy BD(3), Murali Krishna C(4), Ganesan S(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physics, Anna University, Chennai 600 025, India.
(2)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Meenakshi Ammal Dental College and 
Hospital, Chennai 600 095, India.
(3)Government Arignar Anna Memorial Cancer Hospital and Regional Cancer Center,
Karapettai, Kanchipuram 631 501, India.
(4)ACTREC, Tata Memorial Center, Navi Mumbai 410 210, India.
(5)Department of Medical Physics, Anna University, Chennai 600 025, India.
Electronic address: sganesan@annauniv.edu.

A pilot study has been carried out using human saliva in differentiating the
normal subjects from that of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) patients, using 
the autofluorescence spectroscopy at 405nm excitation. A markable difference in
the spectral signatures between the saliva of normal subjects and that of oral
cancer patients has been noticed. The possible reasons for the altered spectral
signature may be due to the presence of endogenous porphyrin, NAD(P)H and FAD in 
the exfoliated cells from saliva. The elevated level of porphyrin in saliva of
OSCC patients may be attributed to the disturbances in the amino acid degradation
pathway and heme biosynthetic pathway, during the transformation of normal into
malignant cells. The integrated area under the curve of fluorescence emission
spectrum at 405nm excitation and also fluorescence excitation spectrum for 625nm 
emission were compared for the saliva of normal and oral cancer patients. The
area under the curve for the emission spectrum provides 85.7% sensitivity and
93.3% specificity, where as the fluorescence excitation spectrum discriminates
the same with 84.1% sensitivity and 93.2% specificity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.11.006 
PMID: 24333763  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 7;86(1):849-56. doi: 10.1021/ac403417z. Epub 2013 Dec 13.

Isolation and amplification of mRNA within a simple microfluidic lab on a chip.

Reinholt SJ(1), Behrent A, Greene C, Kalfe A, Baeumner AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological and Environmental Engineering, Cornell University ,
Ithaca, NY 14853, United States.

The major modules for realizing molecular biological assays in a micro-total
analysis system (μTAS) were developed for the detection of pathogenic organisms. 
The specific focus was the isolation and amplification of eukaryotic mRNA within 
a simple, single-channel device for very low RNA concentrations that could then
be integrated with detection modules. The hsp70 mRNA from Cryptosporidium parvum 
was used as a model analyte. Important points of study were surface chemistries
within poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) microfluidic channels that enabled
specific and sensitive mRNA isolation and amplification reactions for very low
mRNA concentrations. Optimal conditions were achieved when the channel surface
was carboxylated via UV/ozone treatment followed by the immobilization of
polyamidoamine (PAMAM) dendrimers on the surface, thus increasing the
immobilization efficiency of the thymidine oligonucleotide, oligo(dT)25, and
providing a reliable surface for the amplification reaction, importantly, without
the need for blocking agents. Additional chemical modifications of the remaining 
active surface groups were studied to avoid nonspecific capturing of nucleic
acids and hindering of the mRNA amplification at low RNA concentrations.
Amplification of the mRNA was accomplished using nucleic acid sequence-based
amplification (NASBA), an isothermal, primer-dependent technique. Positive
controls consisting of previously generated NASBA amplicons could be diluted
10(15) fold and still result in successful on-chip reamplification. Finally, the 
successful isolation and amplification of mRNA from as few as 30 C. parvum
oocysts was demonstrated directly on-chip and compared to benchtop devices. This 
is the first proof of successful mRNA isolation and NASBA-based amplification of 
mRNA within a simple microfluidic device in relevant analytical volumes.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403417z 
PMCID: PMC3923508
PMID: 24328414  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 7;86(1):913-9. doi: 10.1021/ac4035828. Epub 2013 Dec 23.

Refractive index-based detection of gradient elution liquid chromatography using 
chip-integrated microring resonator arrays.

Wade JH(1), Bailey RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign , 600 S.
Mathews Ave., Urbana, IL 61801, United States.

Refractive index-based sensors offer attractive characteristics as nondestructive
and universal detectors for liquid chromatographic separations, but a small
dynamic range and sensitivity to minor thermal perturbations limit the utility of
commercial RI detectors for many potential applications, especially those
requiring the use of gradient elutions. As such, RI detectors find use almost
exclusively in sample abundant, isocratic separations when interfaced with
high-performance liquid chromatography. Silicon photonic microring resonators are
refractive index-sensitive optical devices that feature good sensitivity and
tremendous dynamic range. The large dynamic range of microring resonators allows 
the sensors to function across a wide spectrum of refractive indices, such as
that encountered when moving from an aqueous to organic mobile phase during a
gradient elution, a key analytical advantage not supported in commercial RI
detectors. Microrings are easily configured into sensor arrays, and
chip-integrated control microrings enable real-time corrections of thermal drift.
Thermal controls allow for analyses at any temperature and, in the absence of
rigorous temperature control, obviates extended detector equilibration wait
times. Herein, proof of concept isocratic and gradient elution separations were
performed using well-characterized model analytes (e.g., caffeine, ibuprofen) in 
both neat buffer and more complex sample matrices. These experiments demonstrate 
the ability of microring arrays to perform isocratic and gradient elutions under 
ambient conditions, avoiding two major limitations of commercial RI-based
detectors and maintaining comparable bulk RI sensitivity. Further benefit may be 
realized in the future through selective surface functionalization to impart
degrees of postcolumn (bio)molecular specificity at the detection phase of a
separation. The chip-based and microscale nature of microring resonators also
make it an attractive potential detection technology that could be integrated
within lab-on-a-chip and microfluidic separation devices.

DOI: 10.1021/ac4035828 
PMCID: PMC3950336
PMID: 24328221  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. J Am Chem Soc. 2014 Jan 15;136(2):653-9. doi: 10.1021/ja406241n. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Self-assembly and crystallization of hairy (f-star) and DNA-grafted nanocubes.

Knorowski C(1), Travesset A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Ames Laboratory, Iowa State University
, Ames, Iowa 50011, United States.

Nanoparticle superlattices are key to realizing many of the materials that will
solve current technological challenges. Particularly important for their optical,
mechanical or catalytic properties are superlattices of anisotropic
(nonspherical) nanoparticles. The key challenge is how to program anisotropic
nanoparticles to self-assemble into the relevant structures. In this Article,
using numerical simulations, we show that "hairy" (f-star) or DNA grafted on
nanocubes provides a general framework to direct the self-assembly into phases
with crystalline, liquid crystalline, rotator, or noncrystalline phases with both
long-range positional and orientational order. We discuss the relevance of these 
phases for engineering nanomaterials or micromaterials displaying precise
orientational order, realization of dry superlattices as well as for the field of
programmed self-assembly of anisotropic nanoparticles in general.

DOI: 10.1021/ja406241n 
PMID: 24325673  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):399-408. doi: 10.1021/ic402354r. Epub 2013 Dec 10.

Solid state 13C and 2H NMR investigations of paramagnetic [Ni(II)(acac)2L2]
complexes.

Lennartson A(1), Christensen LU, McKenzie CJ, Nielsen UG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Chemistry, and Pharmacy, University of Southern Denmark
, Campusvej 55, 5230 Odense M, Denmark.

Nine structurally related paramagnetic acetylacetonato nickel(II) complexes:
[Ni(acac)2] and trans-[Ni(acac)2(X)2]nH/D2O, X = H2O, D2O, NH3, MeOH, PMePh2,
PMe2Ph, or [dppe]1/2, n = 0 or 1, dppe = 1,2-bis(diphenylphosphino)ethane, as
well as cis-[Ni(F6-acac)2(D2O)2], F6-acac = hexafluoroacetylonato, have been
characterized by solid state (13)C MAS NMR spectroscopy. (2)H MAS NMR was used to
probe the local hydrogen bonding network in [Ni(acac)2(D2O)2]D2O and
cis-[Ni(F6-acac)2(D2O)2]. The complexes serve to benchmark the paramagnetic
shift, which can be associated with the resonances of atoms of the coordinated
ligands. The methine (CH) and methyl (CH3) have characteristic combinations of
the isotropic shift (δ) and anisotropy parameters (d, η). The size of the
anisotropy (d), which is the sum of the chemical shift anisotropy (CSA) and the
paramagnetic electron-nuclei dipolar coupling, is much more descriptive than the 
isotropic shift. Moreover, the CSA is found to constitute up to one-third of the 
total anisotropy and should be taken into consideration when (13)C anisotropies
are used for structure determination of paramagnetic materials. The (13)C MAS NMR
spectra of trans-[Ni(acac)2(PMe2Ph)2], trans-[Ni(acac)2(PMePh2)2], and the
noncrystallographically characterized trans-[Ni(acac)2(dppe)]n were assigned
using these correlations. The complexes with L = H2O, D2O, NH3, and MeOH can be
prepared by a series of solid state desorption and sorption reactions. Crystal
structures for trans-[Ni(acac)2(NH3)2] and trans-[Ni(acac)2(PMePh2)2] are
reported.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402354r 
PMID: 24325293 


199. Phys Med Biol. 2014 Jan 6;59(1):43-60. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/43. Epub 2013 
Dec 10.

First full-beam PET acquisitions in proton therapy with a modular dual-head
dedicated system.

Sportelli G(1), Belcari N, Camarlinghi N, Cirrone GA, Cuttone G, Ferretti S,
Kraan A, Ortuño JE, Romano F, Santos A, Straub K, Tramontana A, Guerra AD, Rosso 
V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, University of Pisa, Largo Bruno Pontecorvo 3, I-56127
Pisa, Italy. Istituto Nazionale di Fisica Nucleare, Sezione di Pisa, Largo Bruno 
Pontecorvo 3, I-56127 Pisa, Italy.

During particle therapy irradiation, positron emitters with half-lives ranging
from 2 to 20 min are generated from nuclear processes. The half-lives are such
that it is possible either to detect the positron signal in the treatment room
using an in-beam positron emission tomography (PET) system, right after the
irradiation, or to quickly transfer the patient to a close PET/CT scanner. Since 
the activity distribution is spatially correlated with the dose, it is possible
to use PET imaging as an indirect method to assure the quality of the dose
delivery. In this work, we present a new dedicated PET system able to operate
in-beam. The PET apparatus consists in two 10 cm × 10 cm detector heads. Each
detector is composed of four scintillating matrices of 23 × 23 LYSO crystals. The
crystal size is 1.9 mm × 1.9 mm × 16 mm. Each scintillation matrix is read out
independently with a modularized acquisition system. The distance between the two
opposing detector heads was set to 20 cm. The system has very low dead time per
detector area and a 3 ns coincidence window, which is capable to sustain high
single count rates and to keep the random counts relatively low. This allows a
new full-beam monitoring modality that includes data acquisition also while the
beam is on. The PET system was tested during the irradiation at the CATANA (INFN,
Catania, Italy) cyclotron-based proton therapy facility. Four acquisitions with
different doses and dose rates were analysed. In all cases the random to total
coincidences ratio was equal or less than 25%. For each measurement we estimated 
the accuracy and precision of the activity range on a set of voxel lines within
an irradiated PMMA phantom. Results show that the inclusion of data acquired
during the irradiation, referred to as beam-on data, improves both the precision 
and accuracy of the range measurement with respect to data acquired only after
irradiation. Beam-on data alone are enough to give precisions better than 1 mm
when at least 5 Gy are delivered.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/43 
PMID: 24321855  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Phys Med Biol. 2014 Jan 6;59(1):23-42. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/23. Epub 2013 
Dec 10.

Optical artefact characterization and correction in volumetric scintillation
dosimetry.

Robertson D(1), Hui C, Archambault L, Mohan R, Beddar S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiation Physics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. The University of Texas Graduate School of
Biomedical Sciences at Houston, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

The goals of this study were (1) to characterize the optical artefacts affecting 
measurement accuracy in a volumetric liquid scintillator detector, and (2) to
develop methods to correct for these artefacts. The optical artefacts addressed
were photon scattering, refraction, camera perspective, vignetting, lens
distortion, the lens point spread function, stray radiation, and noise in the
camera. These artefacts were evaluated by theoretical and experimental means, and
specific correction strategies were developed for each artefact. The
effectiveness of the correction methods was evaluated by comparing raw and
corrected images of the scintillation light from proton pencil beams against
validated Monte Carlo calculations. Blurring due to the lens and refraction at
the scintillator tank-air interface were found to have the largest effect on the 
measured light distribution, and lens aberrations and vignetting were important
primarily at the image edges. Photon scatter in the scintillator was not found to
be a significant source of artefacts. The correction methods effectively
mitigated the artefacts, increasing the average gamma analysis pass rate from 66%
to 98% for gamma criteria of 2% dose difference and 2 mm distance to agreement.
We conclude that optical artefacts cause clinically meaningful errors in the
measured light distribution, and we have demonstrated effective strategies for
correcting these optical artefacts.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/59/1/23 
PMCID: PMC3923433
PMID: 24321820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 7;86(1):857-64. doi: 10.1021/ac403518s. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Atmospheric helium capillary dielectric barrier discharge for soft ionization:
determination of atom number densities in the lowest excited and metastable
States.

Horvatic V(1), Müller S, Veza D, Vadla C, Franzke J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physics, Bijenicka 46, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia.

The populations of the lowest excited helium states 2s 3S1, 2s 1S, 2p 3P0 J, and 
2p 1P0 created in an atmospheric helium capillary dielectric barrier discharge
were determined by means of optical emission spectroscopy. The emitted
intensities of 388, 501, 587, and 667 nm lines were measured side-on and end-on
with respect to the discharge axis. The comparison of optically thin side-on
spectra with end-on spectra, which exhibited the absorption effects in the line
kernels, enabled the determination of the average values of the number densities 
n1 in the considered He states along the plasma length L. The field of the
theoretical profiles for a series of the n1L parameters pertinent to the
experimental conditions was calculated for each line. By introducing the
experimental data into the field of calculated curves, n1L corresponding to the
particular state could be obtained. The measurements of the emission profiles
were done as a function of the discharge voltage in the range covering
homogeneous as well as filamentary DBD operation mode. Due to nonuniformity of
the excited atom density distribution along the plasma, the values of n1 could be
obtained only in the homogeneous operation mode where the nonuniformity was
small. The following maximum values were found for the number densities in the
investigated states: n1 av (2s 3S1) = (2.9 ± 1.1) × 1013 cm−3, n1 av (2s 1S) =
(1.4 ± 0.5) × 1013 cm−3, n1 av (2p 3P0 J) = (1.1 ± 0.4) × 1013 cm−3, n1 av (2p
1P0) = (4.2 ± 1.6) × 1012 cm−3, and they represent the average populations along 
the plasma column in the capillary.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403518s 
PMID: 24320177 


202. Structure. 2014 Jan 7;22(1):168-75. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2013.10.015. Epub 2013 Dec
5.

Computing the relative stabilities and the per-residue components in protein
conformational changes.

Roy A(1), Perez A(1), Dill KA(2), Maccallum JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology, Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA.
(2)Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology, Stony Brook University,
Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA; Department of Physics, Stony Brook University, Stony 
Brook, NY 11794, USA; Department of Chemistry, Stony Brook University, Stony
Brook, NY 11794, USA. Electronic address: dill@laufercenter.org.

Protein molecules often undergo conformational changes. In order to gain insights
into the forces that drive such changes, it would be useful to have a method that
computes the per-residue contributions to the conversion free energy. Here, we
describe the "confine-convert-release" (CCR) method, which is applicable to large
conformational changes. We show that CCR correctly predicts the stable states of 
several "chameleon" sequences that have previously been challenging for molecular
simulations. CCR can often discriminate better from worse predictions of native
protein models in critical assessment of protein structure prediction (CASP). We 
show how the total conversion free energies can be parsed into per-residue
free-energy components. Such parsing gives insights into which amino acids are
most responsible for given transformations. For example, here we are able to
"reverse-engineer" the known design principles of the chameleon proteins. This
opens up the possibility for systematic improvements in structure-prediction
scoring functions, in the design of protein conformational switches, and in
interpreting protein mechanisms at the amino-acid level.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2013.10.015 
PMCID: PMC3905753
PMID: 24316402  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 7;86(1):592-9. doi: 10.1021/ac402698h. Epub 2013 Dec 13.

Trust-region algorithm for the inversion of molecular diffusion NMR data.

Xu K(1), Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)Physics Department and Shanghai Key Laboratory of Magnetic Resonance, East
China Normal University , Shanghai 200062, China.

Diffusion NMR experiments are very useful in studying structural and dynamical
properties of molecules and in sorting out components from mixtures. A number of 
numerical approaches have been developed for the processing of diffusion NMR
data. In this paper, numerical problems of the direct regularization methods such
as CONTIN, MaxEnt, and the newly proposed ITAMeD approach are illustrated by
analyzing simulated and experimental data. It allows us to further develop a new 
method to calculate the distribution of diffusion coefficients. Therefore, we
present here an iterative regularization method based on the Trust-Region
Algorithm for the Inversion (TRAIn) of molecular diffusion NMR data. It is
demonstrated in this paper that our approach overcomes major numerical
difficulties of the direct regularization methods mentioned above. Besides, this 
method reconstructs more reliable diffusion coefficient distributions, especially
for real world samples of which the diffusion coefficients are nonsymmetrically
distributed.

DOI: 10.1021/ac402698h 
PMID: 24313860 


204. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):27-9. doi: 10.1021/ic402769u. Epub 2013 Dec 6.

Synthesis, bonding, and reactivity of a cerium(IV) fluoride complex.

Williams UJ(1), Robinson JR, Lewis AJ, Carroll PJ, Walsh PJ, Schelter EJ.

Author information: 
(1)P. Roy and Diana T. Vagelos Laboratories, Department of Chemistry, University 
of Pennsylvania , 231 South 34th Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, United
States.

Oxidation of Ce[N(SiMe3)2]3 in the presence of PF6(-) or BF4(-) afforded
isolation of CeF[N(SiMe3)2]3. Structural and electrochemical characterization
shows that this compound is in its tetravalent oxidation state and contains a
terminal fluoride ligand. Spectroscopy and density functional theory have been
used to characterize the Ce-F bond as ionic, which is reinforced by an initial
reactivity study that demonstrates the nucleophilicity of the fluoride ligand.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402769u 
PMID: 24313793  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. J Endourol. 2014 Apr;28(4):476-80. doi: 10.1089/end.2013.0496. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

A prospective study examining the association between preoperative frailty and
postoperative complications in patients undergoing minimally invasive surgery.

Revenig LM(1), Canter DJ, Master VA, Maithel SK, Kooby DA, Pattaras JG, Tai C,
Ogan K.

Author information: 
(1)1 Department of Urology, Emory University School of Medicine , Atlanta,
Georgia .

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Mar;193(3):907-8.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Current surgical decision-making is overly subjective and
often misjudges a patient's physiologic state. The concept of frailty has gained 
recent recognition and potentially represents a measureable phenotype, which can 
quantify a patient's physiologic reserve and risk of an adverse surgical outcome.
We sought to investigate the relationship between preoperative markers of frailty
and postoperative complications in patients undergoing minimally invasive surgery
(MIS).
METHODS: Frailty, using the methodology described by Fried and coworkers, was
prospectively measured in patients who presented to urology, general surgery, and
surgical oncology clinics where major MIS (endoscopic, laparoscopic, or robotic) 
was planned. The relationship between preoperative markers of frailty and 30-day 
postoperative complications was our primary outcome measure.
RESULTS: Our cohort includes 80 patients. Mean age and body mass index were 60.0 
(range 19-87) years and 29.2 (range 18.4-53.1) kg/m(2), respectively. The
majority of patients were male (57.5%) and Caucasian (65.0%). Thirteen patients
were deemed "intermediately frail" or "frail," and the remaining 67 were
classified as "not frail." Thirteen (16.25%) patients experienced any
postoperative complication. Five (38.5%) of the intermediately frail and frail
patients experienced a complication, compared with eight (11.9%) of the not frail
patients (odds ratio=5.914; 95% confidence interval=1.25-27.96; P=0.025).
CONCLUSION: The advent of MIS has potentially lured surgeons into thinking older 
and patients with comorbidities may more easily tolerate this surgical approach
compared with traditional open techniques. Our data suggest, however, that
intermediately frail or frail patients are at increased risk of experiencing
postoperative complications compared with not frail patients.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2013.0496 
PMID: 24308497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Inorg Chem. 2014 Jan 6;53(1):645-52. doi: 10.1021/ic402831f. Epub 2013 Dec 3.

Mechanistic insights into the C-H bond activation of hydrocarbons by chromium(IV)
oxo and chromium(III) superoxo complexes.

Cho KB(1), Kang H, Woo J, Park YJ, Seo MS, Cho J, Nam W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Nano Science, Center for Biomimetic Systems, Ewha 
Womans University , Seoul 120-750, Korea.

The mechanism of the C-H bond activation of hydrocarbons by a nonheme
chromium(IV) oxo complex bearing an N-methylated tetraazamacrocyclic cyclam (TMC)
ligand, [Cr(IV)(O)(TMC)(Cl)](+) (2), has been investigated experimentally and
theoretically. In experimental studies, reaction rates of 2 with substrates
having weak C-H bonds were found to depend on the concentration and bond
dissociation energies of the substrates. A large kinetic isotope effect value of 
60 was determined in the oxidation of dihydroanthracene (DHA) and deuterated DHA 
by 2. These results led us to propose that the C-H bond activation reaction
occurs via a H-atom abstraction mechanism, in which H-atom abstraction of
substrates by 2 is the rate-determining step. In addition, formation of a
chromium(III) hydroxo complex, [Cr(III)(OH)(TMC)(Cl)](+) (3), was observed as a
decomposed product of 2 in the C-H bond activation reaction. The Cr(III)OH
product was characterized unambiguously with various spectroscopic methods and
X-ray crystallography. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations support the
experimental observations that the C-H bond activation by 2 does not occur via
the conventional H-atom-abstraction/oxygen-rebound mechanism and that 3 is the
product formed in this C-H bond activation reaction. DFT calculations also
propose that 2 may have some Cr(III)O(•-) character. The oxidizing power of 2 was
then compared with that of a chromium(III) superoxo complex bearing the identical
TMC ligand, [Cr(III)(O2)(TMC)(Cl)](+) (1), in the C-H bond activation reaction.
By performing reactions of 1 and 2 with substrates under identical conditions, we
were able to demonstrate that the reactivity of 2 is slightly greater than that
of 1. DFT calculations again support this experimental observation, showing that 
the rate-limiting barrier for the reaction with 2 is slightly lower than that of 
1.

DOI: 10.1021/ic402831f 
PMID: 24299279  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Photochem Photobiol. 2014 May-Jun;90(3):615-21. doi: 10.1111/php.12217. Epub 2014
Jan 7.

Role of ozone in UV-C disinfection, demonstrated by comparison between wild-type 
and mutant conidia of Aspergillus niger.

Liu J(1), Zhou L, Chen JH, Mao W, Li WJ, Hu W, Wang SY, Wang CM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Modern Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Lanzhou, China.

This study aimed to investigate the tolerance of a melanized wild-type strain of 
Aspergillus niger (CON1) and its light-colored mutant (MUT1) to UV-C light and
the concomitantly generated ozone. Treatments were segregated into four groups
based on whether UV irradiation was used and the presence or absence of ozone:
(-UV, -O3), (-UV, +O3), (+UV, -O3) and (+UV, +O3). The survival of CON1 and MUT1 
conidia under +UV decreased as the exposure time increased, with CON1 showing
greater resistance to UV irradiation than MUT1. Ozone induced CON1 conidium
inactivation only under conditions of UV radiation exposure. While, the
inactivation effect of ozone on MUT1 was always detectable regardless of the
presence of UV irradiation. Furthermore, the CON1 conidial suspension showed
lower UV light transmission than MUT1 when examined at the same concentration.
Compared with the pigment in MUT1, the melanin in CON1 exhibited more potent
radical-scavenging activity and stronger UV absorbance. These results suggested
that melanin protected A. niger against UV disinfection via UV screening and free
radical scavenging. The process by which UV-C disinfection induces a continual
decrease in conidial survival suggests that UV irradiation and ozone exert a
synergistic fungicidal effect on A. niger prior to reaching a plateau.

© 2013 The American Society of Photobiology.

DOI: 10.1111/php.12217 
PMID: 24283963  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. J Comput Chem. 2014 Jan 5;35(1):70-81. doi: 10.1002/jcc.23474. Epub 2013 Oct 28.

Small molecule-mediated control of hydroxyapatite growth: free energy
calculations benchmarked to density functional theory.

Xu Z(1), Yang Y, Wang Z, Mkhonto D, Shang C, Liu ZP, Cui Q, Sahai N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Polymer Science, 170 University Avenue, University of Akron,
Akron, Ohio, 44325-3909.

The unique, plate-like morphology of hydroxyapatite (HAP) nanocrystals in bone
lends to the hierarchical structure and functions of bone. Proteins enriched in
phosphoserine (Ser-OPO3) and glutamic acid (Glu) residues have been proposed to
regulate crystal morphology; however, the atomic-level mechanisms remain unclear.
Previous molecular dynamics studies addressing biomineralization have used force 
fields with limited benchmarking, especially at the water/mineral interface, and 
often limited sampling for the binding free energy profile. Here, we use the
umbrella sampling/weighted histogram analysis method to obtain the adsorption
free energy of Ser-OPO3 and Glu on HAP (100) and (001) surfaces to understand
organic-mediated crystal growth. The calculated organic-water-mineral interfacial
energies are carefully benchmarked to density functional theory calculations,
with explicit inclusion of solvating water molecules around the adsorbate plus
the Poisson-Boltzmann continuum model for long-range solvation effects. Both
amino acids adsorb more strongly on the HAP (100) face than the (001) face.
Growth rate along the [100] direction should then be slower than in the [001]
direction, resulting in plate-like crystal morphology with greater surface area
for the (100) than the (001) face, consistent with bone HAP crystal morphology.
Thus, even small molecules are capable of regulating bone crystal growth by
preferential adsorption in specific directions. Furthermore, Ser-OPO3 is a more
effective growth modifier by adsorbing more strongly than Glu on the (100) face, 
providing one possible explanation for the energetically expensive process of
phosphorylation of some proteins involved in bone biomineralization. The current 
results have broader implications for designing routes for biomimetic crystal
synthesis.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23474 
PMID: 24272540  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Mol Pharm. 2014 Jan 6;11(1):40-8. doi: 10.1021/mp4005244. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Ultrasound-mediated destruction of LHRHa-targeted and paclitaxel-loaded lipid
microbubbles induces proliferation inhibition and apoptosis in ovarian cancer
cells.

Liu H(1), Chang S, Sun J, Zhu S, Pu C, Zhu Y, Wang Z, Xu RX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Second Affiliated Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University , Chongqing 400010, China.

Although paclitaxel (PTX) is used with platinum as the first line chemotherapy
regimen for ovarian cancer, its clinical efficacy is often limited by severe
adverse effects. Ultrasound-targeted microbubble destruction (UTMD) technique
holds a great promise in minimizing the side effects and maximizing the
therapeutic efficacy. However, the technique typically uses nontargeted
microbubbles with suboptimal efficiency. We synthesized targeted and PTX-loaded
microbubbles (MBs) for UTMD mediated chemotherapy in ovarian cancer cells.
PTX-loaded lipid MBs were coated with a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone
analogue (LHRHa) through a biotin-avidin linkage to target the ovarian cancer
A2780/DDP cells that express the LHRH receptor. In the cell culture studies,
PTX-loaded and LHRHa-targeted MBs (TPLMBs) in combination with ultrasound (300
kHz, 0.5 W/cm(2), 30 s) demonstrated antiproliferative activities of 41.30 ±
3.93%, 67.76 ± 2.45%, and 75.93 ± 2.81% at 24, 48, and 72 h after the treatment, 
respectively. The cell apoptosis ratio at 24 h after the treatment is 32.6 ±
0.79%, which is significantly higher than other treatment groups such as PTX only
and no-targeted PTX-loaded MBs (NPLMBs) with or without ultrasound mediation. Our
experiment verifies the hypothesis that ultrasound mediation of ovarian
cancer-targeted and drug-loaded MBs will enhance the PTX therapeutic efficiency.

DOI: 10.1021/mp4005244 
PMCID: PMC3903397
PMID: 24266423  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Anal Chem. 2014 Jan 7;86(1):703-12. doi: 10.1021/ac403137h. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Single-cell forensic short tandem repeat typing within microfluidic droplets.

Geng T(1), Novak R, Mathies RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of California , Berkeley, California
94720, United States.

A short tandem repeat (STR) typing method is developed for forensic
identification of individual cells. In our strategy, monodisperse 1.5 nL
agarose-in-oil droplets are produced with a high frequency using a microfluidic
droplet generator. Statistically dilute single cells, along with
primer-functionalized microbeads, are randomly compartmentalized in the droplets.
Massively parallel single-cell droplet polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is
performed to transfer replicas of desired STR targets from the single-cell
genomic DNA onto the coencapsulated microbeads. These DNA-conjugated beads are
subsequently harvested and reamplified under statistically dilute conditions for 
conventional capillary electrophoresis (CE) STR fragment size analysis. The
9-plex STR profiles of single cells from both pure and mixed populations of
GM09947 and GM09948 human lymphoid cells show that all alleles are correctly
called and allelic drop-in/drop-out is not observed. The cell mixture study
exhibits a good linear relationship between the observed and input cell ratios in
the range of 1:1 to 10:1. Additionally, the STR profile of GM09947 cells could be
deduced even in the presence of a high concentration of cell-free contaminating
9948 genomic DNA. Our method will be valuable for the STR analysis of samples
containing mixtures of cells/DNA from multiple contributors and for
low-concentration samples.

DOI: 10.1021/ac403137h 
PMID: 24266330  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):335-44. doi: 10.1039/c3cp53474j.

Effects of some salts on H2O as probed by a thermodynamic signature of glycerol: 
towards understanding the Hofmeister effects (VII).

Koga Y(1), Westh P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C., 
Canada V6T 1Z1. koga@chem.ubc.ca.

The generality of the Hofmeister effects has been questioned of late, and doubts 
have been cast over their importance in understanding the specific ion effects on
the chemistry and physics of biopolymers in aqueous solutions. Recent
experimental evidence from modern non-linear spectroscopies points mostly to the 
direct interaction between the ion and the biopolymer in question that is more
important for understanding the Hofmeister effects. On the other hand, our own
contribution by higher order thermodynamical studies indicated that the effects
of ions on H2O itself may not be denied all together. Namely, we devised a
methodology whereby the effect of an ion on H2O is characterized by two
orthogonal indices, hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity, by using a third order
thermodynamic signature of hydrophobic 1-propanol (1P) as a probe, the 1P-probing
methodology. The results indicated that the common anion ranking could be
understood in terms of two indices, hydrophobicity and hydrophilicity of an
individual ion. In the present work, we make an attempt at probing the effects of
the same ions on H2O by a typical hydrophile, glycerol (abbreviated as Gly in
this article). Compared with the results of the 1P-probing methodology, we seek
to determine how hydrophiles would react to the subtle modification of H2O caused
by the presence of an ion, since biopolymers are large amphiphiles with
hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces. The results indicate that the Gly-probe is 
much less sensitive than the 1P-probe. We suggest therefore that it is the
hydrophobic moieties of biopolymers that mainly give more conspicuous response to
the modified H2O by the presence of an ion.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53474j 
PMID: 24257505  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):297-303. doi: 10.1039/c3cp53318b.

A cell-model study on counterion fluctuations in macroionic systems: effect of
non-extensiveness in entropy.

Chen YR(1), Lee CL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, National Taiwan Normal University, Taipei 11677,
Taiwan.

Rigorously speaking, entropy is slightly non-extensive, and this
non-extensiveness, which characterizes the degree of fluctuations, can contribute
to effective interactions between mesoscopic objects. In this paper, we consider 
a pair of macroions, each accompanied by 1000 counterions, and with a cell-model 
description we demonstrate that the slow variation of non-extensiveness in
counterion entropy over macroionic distance leads to an effective long-range
attraction between the macroions. With the aid of Monte Carlo simulation and a
Bragg-Williams theory including counterion number fluctuations, we find the depth
of attraction in free energy to be approximately 0.2k(B)T. The observation in our
cell-model study provides an insight for further understanding of effective
interactions in real macroionic systems.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53318b 
PMID: 24253489 


213. J Photochem Photobiol B. 2014 Jan 5;130:30-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.10.014. Epub 2013 Nov 1.

Encapsulation of biogenic and synthetic polyamines by nanoparticles PEG and
mPEG-anthracene.

Sanyakamdhorn S(1), Chanphai P(1), Tajmir-Riahi HA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry-Physics, University of Québec in Trois-Rivières, C.P. 
500, Trois-Rivières, Québec G9A 5H7, Canada.
(2)Department of Chemistry-Physics, University of Québec in Trois-Rivières, C.P. 
500, Trois-Rivières, Québec G9A 5H7, Canada. Electronic address:
tajmirri@uqtr.ca.

Synthetic polymers play a major role in drug delivery in vitro and in vivo. We
report the bindings of biogenic polyamines, spermine (spm), and spermidine
(spmd), and their synthetic analogues, 3,7,11,15-tetrazaheptadecane⋅4HCl (BE-333)
and 3,7,11,15,19-pentazahenicosane⋅5HCl (BE-3333) with poly(ethylene glycol)
PEG-3000, PEG-8000 and methoxy poly(ethylene glycol) anthracene (PEG-anthracene).
Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), UV-visible and fluorescence spectroscopic were
used to analyze polyamine binding mode, the binding constant and the effect of
PEG compositions on polyamine-polymer interaction. Structural analysis showed
that polyamines bind PEG through hydrophobic and hydrophilic contacts with
overall binding constants of Kspm-PEG-3000=3.1×10(4)M(-1),
Kspmd-PEG-3000=5.5×10(4)M(-1), KBE-333-PEG-3000=2.5×10(4)M(-1),
KBE-3333-PEG-3000=1.5×10(5)M(-1), Kspm-PEG-8000=4.1×10(5)M(-1),
Kspmd-PEG-8000=7.5×10(5)M(-1), KBE-333-PEG-8000=4.5×10(4)M(-1),
KBE-3333-PEG-8000=2.2×10(5)M(-1), Kspm-mPEG-ant=6.5×10(5)M(-1),
Kspmd-mPEG-ant=1.1×10(6)M(-1), KBE-333-mPEG-ant=2.2×10(5)M(-1) and
KBE-3333-mPEG-ant=6.9×10(4)M(-1). The number of binding sites (n) occupied by
polyamines were from 0.2 to 0.5. Biogenic polyamines showed stronger affinity
toward polymer complexation than synthetic polyamines, while weaker interaction
was observed as polyamine cationic charges increased. Our results suggest that
PEG and its derivative can act as carriers for delivering antitumor polyamine
analogues to target tissues.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jphotobiol.2013.10.014 
PMID: 24252797  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):555-64. doi: 10.1039/c3nr03982j. Epub 2013 Nov 18.

Gadolinium oxysulfide nanoparticles as multimodal imaging agents for T2-weighted 
MR, X-ray tomography and photoluminescence.

Osseni SA(1), Lechevallier S, Verelst M, Perriat P, Dexpert-Ghys J, Neumeyer D,
Garcia R, Mayer F, Djanashvili K, Peters JA, Magdeleine E, Gros-Dagnac H, Celsis 
P, Mauricot R.

Author information: 
(1)Centre d'Elaboration de Matériaux et d'Etudes Structurales, Université de
Toulouse - UPS, 29 rue Jeanne Marvig, BP 94347, 31055 Toulouse, Cedex 4, France. 
Robert.Mauricot@cemes.fr.

We have synthesized gadolinium oxysulfide nanoparticles (NPs) doped with other
lanthanides (Eu(3+), Er(3+), Yb(3+)) via a hydroxycarbonate precursor
precipitation route followed by a sulfuration process under a H2S-Ar atmosphere
at 750 °C in order to propose new multimodal nanoplatforms for Magnetic Resonance
(MR), X-ray and photoluminescence imaging. Gd2O2S:Eu(3+) NPs strongly absorb near
UV (≈ 300-400 nm) and re-emit strong red light (624 nm). They can be easily
internalized by cancer cells, and imaged by epifluorescence microscopy under
excitation in the NUV (365 nm). They are not cytotoxic for living cells up to 100
μg mL(-1). Consequently, they are well adapted for in vitro imaging on cell
cultures. Gd2O2S:Eu(3+) NPs also show strong transverse relaxivity and strong
X-ray absorption allowing their use as contrast agents for T2-weighted MRI and
X-ray tomography. Our study shows that Gd2O2S:Eu(3+) NPs are considerably better 
than commercial Ferumoxtran-10 NPs as negative contrast agents for MRI.
Upconversion emission of Gd2O2S:Er; Yb (1; 8%) NPs under infrared excitation
(λ(ex) = 980 nm) shows mainly red emission (≈ 650-680 nm). Consequently, they are
more specifically designed for in vivo deep fluorescence imaging, because both
excitation and emission are located inside the "transparency window" of
biological tissues (650-1200 nm). Magnetic relaxivity and X-ray absorption
behaviors of Gd2O2S:Er; Yb NPs are almost similar to Gd2O2S:Eu(3+) NPs.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr03982j 
PMID: 24241248  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Mol Pharm. 2014 Jan 6;11(1):49-58. doi: 10.1021/mp400523h. Epub 2013 Nov 22.

Ultrasound-mediated destruction of LHRHa-targeted and paclitaxel-loaded lipid
microbubbles for the treatment of intraperitoneal ovarian cancer xenografts.

Pu C(#)(1), Chang S(1), Sun J(#)(1), Zhu S(#)(2), Liu H(1), Zhu Y(1), Wang Z(3), 
Xu RX(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Second Affiliated Hospital of
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing 400010, China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical
University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(3)Institute of Ultrasound Imaging, Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing
Medical University, Chongqing 400010, China.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 
43210, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Ultrasound-targeted microbubble destruction (UTMD) is a promising technique to
facilitate the delivery of chemotherapy in cancer treatment. However, the process
typically uses nonspecific microbubbles, leading to low tumor-to-normal tissue
uptake ratio and adverse side effects. In this study, we synthesized the LHRH
receptor-targeted and paclitaxel (PTX)-loaded lipid microbubbles (TPLMBs) for
tumor-specific binding and enhanced therapeutic effect at the tumor site. An
ovarian cancer xenograft model was established by injecting A2780/DDP cells
intraperitoneally in BALB/c nude mice. Microscopic imaging of tumor sections
after intraperitoneal injection of TPLMBs showed effective binding of the
microbubbles with cancer cells. Ultrasound mediated destruction of the
intraperitoneally injected TPLMBs yielded a superior therapeutic outcome in
comparison with other treatment options. Immunohistochemical analyses of the
dissected tumor tissue further confirmed the increased tumor apoptosis and
reduced angiogenesis. Our experiment suggests that ultrasound-mediated
intraperitoneal administration of the targeted drug-loaded microbubbles may be a 
useful method for the treatment of ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/mp400523h 
PMCID: PMC3899929
PMID: 24237050  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):532-8. doi: 10.1039/c3nr05362h. Epub 2013 Nov 15.

A distinct atomic structure-catalytic activity relationship in 3-10 nm supported 
Au particles.

Petkov V(1), Ren Y, Shan S, Luo J, Zhong CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Central Michigan University, Mt. Pleasant, Michigan
48859, USA. petko1vg@cmich.edu.

Bulk Au is very inert but Au nanoparticles less than 5 nm in size have been found
to be catalytically active for several reactions, in particular for
low-temperature oxidation of CO. Using high-energy X-ray diffraction coupled with
atomic pair distribution function analysis and computer simulations we determine 
the structure of 3 nm and 10 nm Au particles supported on titania and silica as
typical representatives of reducible and irreducible supports, respectively. We
find that the synthesis protocol adopted in our work affects strongly and
differently the structure of the Au nanoparticles on the different supports. This
leads to clearly distinct dependences of the catalytic activity of the
nanoparticles on their size. In the case of the silica support the catalytic
activity of Au nanoparticles increases and in the case of the titania support it 
decreases with decreasing nanoparticle size. The experimental results are
considered in terms of current theoretical predictions and found to be in good
accord with them.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr05362h 
PMID: 24232747  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J R Soc Interface. 2013 Nov 13;11(90):20130676. doi: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0676.
Print 2014 Jan 6.

Investigation of nerve injury through microfluidic devices.

Siddique R(1), Thakor N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, , Baltimore, MD, USA.

Traumatic injuries, both in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral
nervous system (PNS), can potentially lead to irreversible damage resulting in
permanent loss of function. Investigating the complex dynamics involved in these 
processes may elucidate the biological mechanisms of both nerve degeneration and 
regeneration, and may potentially lead to the development of new therapies for
recovery. A scientific overview on the biological foundations of nerve injury is 
presented. Differences between nerve regeneration in the central and PNS are
discussed. Advances in microtechnology over the past several years have led to
the development of invaluable tools that now facilitate investigation of
neurobiology at the cellular scale. Microfluidic devices are explored as a means 
to study nerve injury at the necessary simplification of the cellular level,
including those devices aimed at both chemical and physical injury, as well as
those that recreate the post-injury environment.

DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0676 
PMCID: PMC3836319
PMID: 24227311  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):181-9. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04152b. Epub 2013 Nov 14.

Magnetoresistive polyaniline/multi-walled carbon nanotube nanocomposites with
negative permittivity.

Gu H(1), Guo J, He Q, Jiang Y, Huang Y, Haldolaarachige N, Luo Z, Young DP, Wei
S, Guo Z.

Author information: 
(1)School of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology,
Harbin, Heilongjiang 150001, China. huangyd@hit.edu.cn.

Contrary to the observed positive giant magnetoresistance (GMR) in as-received
multi-walled carbon nanotubes (MWNTs), pure polyaniline (PANI) synthesized with
Cr(vi) as oxidant and MWNTs/PANI nanocomposites with ammonium persulfate (APS) as
oxidant, a room temperature negative GMR of around -2% was reported in MWNTs/PANI
nanocomposites with Cr(vi) as oxidant. Different from a frequency switch of
permittivity from negative to positive in MWNTs/PANI nanocomposites with APS as
oxidant, unique negative permittivity was observed in MWNTs/PANI nanocomposites
with Cr(vi) as oxidant within the measured frequency range from 20 to 2 × 10(6)
Hz. The obtained unique negative permittivity was explained by the plasma
frequency from the Drude model, at which the permittivity changes from negative
to positive and the material changes from a metamaterial to an ordinary
dielectric medium. The observed positive and negative GMR behaviors in these
disordered systems as verified by the temperature dependent resistivity
exploration were well explained through a wave-function shrinkage model and
orbital magnetoconductivity theory by calculating the changed localization length
(a0).

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04152b 
PMID: 24226933  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):110-6. doi: 10.1039/c3cp53533a.

Ionization-induced π → H site-switching in phenol-CH4 complexes studied using IR 
dip spectroscopy.

Miyazaki M(1), Takeda A, Schmies M, Sakai M, Misawa K, Ishiuchi S, Michels F,
Müller-Dethlefs K, Dopfer O, Fujii M.

Author information: 
(1)Chemical Resources Laboratory, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 Nagatsuta, 
Yokohama, 226-8503, Japan. mfujii@res.titech.ac.jp.

IR spectra of phenol-CH4 complexes generated in a supersonic expansion were
measured before and after photoionization. The IR spectrum before ionization
shows the free OH stretching vibration (ν(OH)) and the structure of neutral
phenol-CH4 in the electronic ground state (S0) is assigned to a π-bound geometry,
in which the CH4 ligand is located above the phenol ring. The IR spectrum after
ionization to the cationic ground state (D0) exhibits a red shifted ν(OH) band
assigned to a hydrogen-bonded cationic structure, in which the CH4 ligand binds
to the phenolic OH group. In contrast to phenol-Ar/Kr, the observed
ionization-induced π → H migration has unity yield for CH4. This difference is
attributed to intracluster vibrational energy redistribution processes.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53533a 
PMID: 24226209  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Chem Commun (Camb). 2014 Jan 7;50(2):165-7. doi: 10.1039/c3cc46515b.

Selective photocatalytic conversion of glycerol to hydroxyacetaldehyde in aqueous
solution on facet tuned TiO2-based catalysts.

Chong R(1), Li J, Zhou X, Ma Y, Yang J, Huang L, Han H, Zhang F, Li C.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Catalysis, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian National Laboratory for Clean Energy, 457
Zhongshan Road, Dalian, 116023, China. canli@dicp.ac.cn.

Glycerol is selectively converted to hydroxyacetaldehyde (HAA) and H2 in aqueous 
solution on TiO2-based photocatalysts. The product selectivity was verified to be
strongly dependent on the facets of TiO2. Rutile with high percentage of {110}
facets results in over 90% superior selectivity of HAA, while anatase with {001} 
or {101} facets gives only 16% and 49% selectivity for HAA, respectively.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cc46515b 
PMID: 24226191  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Proc Biol Sci. 2013 Nov 13;281(1774):20132605. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.2605. Print
2014 Jan 7.

How superdiffusion gets arrested: ecological encounters explain shift from Lévy
to Brownian movement.

de Jager M(1), Bartumeus F, Kölzsch A, Weissing FJ, Hengeveld GM, Nolet BA,
Herman PM, van de Koppel J.

Author information: 
(1)Spatial Ecology Department, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research
(NIOZ), , PO Box 140, 4400 AC Yerseke, The Netherlands, Theoretical Biology
Group, University of Groningen, , Nijenborgh 7, 9747 AG Groningen, The
Netherlands, Community and Conservation Ecology Group, Centre for Ecological and 
Evolutionary Studies, University of Groningen, , Nijenborgh 7, 9747 AG Groningen,
The Netherlands, Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Zürich,
Universitaetstrasse 16, 8092 Zürich, Switzerland, Center for Advanced Studies of 
Blanes (CEAB-CSIC), , Accés Cala Sant Francesc, 14, 17300 Blanes, Girona, Spain, 
Department of Animal Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW), , PO 
Box 50, 6700 AB Wageningen, The Netherlands, Project Group Movement Ecology,
Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW), , PO Box 50, 6700 AB Wageningen,
The Netherlands.

Ecological theory uses Brownian motion as a default template for describing
ecological movement, despite limited mechanistic underpinning. The generality of 
Brownian motion has recently been challenged by empirical studies that highlight 
alternative movement patterns of animals, especially when foraging in
resource-poor environments. Yet, empirical studies reveal animals moving in a
Brownian fashion when resources are abundant. We demonstrate that Einstein's
original theory of collision-induced Brownian motion in physics provides a
parsimonious, mechanistic explanation for these observations. Here, Brownian
motion results from frequent encounters between organisms in dense environments. 
In density-controlled experiments, movement patterns of mussels shifted from Lévy
towards Brownian motion with increasing density. When the analysis was restricted
to moves not truncated by encounters, this shift did not occur. Using a
theoretical argument, we explain that any movement pattern approximates Brownian 
motion at high-resource densities, provided that movement is interrupted upon
encounters. Hence, the observed shift to Brownian motion does not indicate a
density-dependent change in movement strategy but rather results from frequent
collisions. Our results emphasize the need for a more mechanistic use of Brownian
motion in ecology, highlighting that especially in rich environments, Brownian
motion emerges from ecological interactions, rather than being a default movement
pattern.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2013.2605 
PMCID: PMC3843843
PMID: 24225464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Proc Biol Sci. 2013 Nov 13;281(1774):20132531. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.2531. Print
2014 Jan 7.

Social status and personality: stability in social state can promote consistency 
of behavioural responses.

Favati A(1), Leimar O, Radesäter T, Løvlie H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, Stockholm University, , 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden,
Department of Physics, Chemistry and Biology, Linköping University, , 581 83
Linköping, Sweden.

Stability of 'state' has been suggested as an underlying factor explaining
behavioural stability and animal personality (i.e. variation among, and
consistency within individuals in behavioural responses), but the possibility
that stable social relationships represent such states remains unexplored. Here, 
we investigated the influence of social status on the expression and consistency 
of behaviours by experimentally changing social status between repeated
personality assays. We used male domestic fowl (Gallus gallus domesticus), a
social species that forms relatively stable dominance hierarchies, and showed
that behavioural responses were strongly affected by social status, but also by
individual characteristics. The level of vigilance, activity and exploration
changed with social status, whereas boldness appeared as a stable individual
property, independent of status. Furthermore, variation in vocalization predicted
future social status, indicating that individual behaviours can both be a
predictor and a consequence of social status, depending on the aspect in focus.
Our results illustrate that social states contribute to both variation and
stability in behavioural responses, and should therefore be taken into account
when investigating and interpreting variation in personality.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2013.2531 
PMCID: PMC3843839
PMID: 24225462  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):88-94. doi: 10.1039/c3cp53343c.

Structure stability and high-temperature distortion resistance of trilayer
complexes formed from graphenes and boron nitride nanosheets.

Yuan J(1), Liew KM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Electronic Science, Changsha University of Science and
Technology, Changsha 410114, China.

The molecular dynamics was employed to study the structure stability and
high-temperature distortion resistance of a trilayer complex formed by a
monolayer graphene sandwiched in bilayer boron nitride nanosheets (BN-G-BN) and
graphenes (G-G-G). The investigation shows that the optimal interlayer distances 
are about 0.347 nm for BN-G-BN and 0.341 nm for G-G-G. Analysis and comparison of
the binding energy, van der Waals interactions between layers and radial
distribution function (RDF) revealed that the BN-G-BN achieves a more stable
combined structure than G-G-G. The interlayer graphene in the trilayer complex
nanosheets, especially the graphene in BN-G-BN, is more integrated than monolayer
graphenes in a crystal structure. The structures at high temperature of 1500 K
show that the BN-G-BN exhibits less distortion than G-G-G; especially, fixing the
atomic positions on up-down layers can obviously further reduce structural
deformation of interlayer graphene. The result further indicates that the
high-temperature distortion resistance of interlayer graphene in the trilayer
complex is related to both material type and conditions of constraints at the
up-down layers.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53343c 
PMID: 24220027 


224. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):95-102. doi: 10.1039/c3cp53272k.

Significant variation of surface spin polarization through group IV atom (C, Si, 
Ge, Sn) adsorption on Fe3O4(100).

Sun X(1), Li SD, Wang B, Kurahashi M, Pratt A, Yamauchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and
Department of Physics, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei,
Anhui 230026, China. sunx@ustc.edu.cn.

The adsorption of group IV atoms (C, Si, Ge, Sn) on the magnetite Fe3O4(100)
surface is investigated by density functional theory calculations. All these
atoms prefer to bond to the surface oxygen atom which has no tetrahedral Fe(A)
neighbor. The spin-up surface states of clean Fe3O4(100) are completely removed
and half-metallicity is recovered by C adsorption. The spin-up band gap of the
C-adsorbed Fe3O4(100) surface is wider than that of the H-adsorbed one and closer
to the value of bulk Fe3O4. For the adsorption of other group IV atoms, the
adsorbate-substrate interaction decreases and the adsorbate-adsorbate interaction
increases with the increase of atomic number Z. As a consequence, the spin
polarization varies from -99.4% (C adsorption) to +44.2% (Sn adsorption) for the 
electronic states of the adsorbed atom integrated from -0.5 eV to the Fermi
level. The ability to tune the surface spin polarization by the choice of
adsorbate is of significance for magnetite-based spintronic devices.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp53272k 
PMID: 24220002 


225. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):483-91. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04300b. Epub 2013 Nov 13.

Substrate-induced effects on the optical properties of individual ZnO nanorods
with different diameters.

Zhao D(1), Zhang C, Zhang X, Cai L, Zhang X, Luan P, Zhang Q, Tu M, Wang Y, Zhou 
W, Li Z, Xie S.

Author information: 
(1)Beijing National Laboratory for Condensed Matter Physics, Institute of
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 100190, P. R. China.
ssxie@iphy.ac.cn.

We present the influence of a substrate on the properties of well-dispersed
individual ZnO nanorods (NRs) with different diameters, especially on the
photoluminescence (PL) properties. The studied ZnO NRs were partially supported
by the quartz substrate and partially suspended in air. Continuous redshift and
intensity decrease of the near band-edge emission (NBE) were observed along the
suspended segment of the ZnO NRs due to the increasing temperature under UV laser
excitation, suggesting that the presence of the substrate can effectively enhance
the heat-sinking capability of ZnO NRs. Based on the PL measurements on
individual suspended ZnO NRs with diameters from 86 nm to 2.35 μm, the redshift
of NBE along the suspended segment was more obvious for ZnO NRs with a smaller
diameter, indicating that the thermal conductive ability increases as diameter
increases. Additionally, by combining the experimental and simulation results, we
found that the presence of the substrate also quenched the whispering gallery
modes (WGMs) of the ZnO NRs with a diameter above about 350 nm due to the
symmetry breaking induced by the quartz substrate which has a larger refractive
index compared with air. Our studies confirm that the substrate significantly
influences the properties of ZnO NRs. To fully utilize the potential properties
of nanomaterials for applications in nanodevices, the substrate-induced effects
should be considered thoughtfully.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04300b 
PMID: 24219965 


226. Chem Commun (Camb). 2014 Jan 7;50(2):189-91. doi: 10.1039/c3cc46427j.

Amine formylation via carbon dioxide recycling catalyzed by a simple and
efficient heterogeneous palladium catalyst.

Cui X(1), Zhang Y, Deng Y, Shi F.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory for Oxo Synthesis and Selective Oxidation, Centre for
Green Chemistry and Catalysis Lanzhou Institute of Chemical Physics, Chinese
Academy of Sciences No.18, Tianshui Middle Road, Lanzhou, 730000, China.
fshi@licp.cas.cn.

A simple and efficient Pd/Al2O3-NR-RD catalyst was prepared by depositing
palladium on a shape controllable Al2O3-NR support through a two-step process
that involves hydrothermal synthesis of Al2O3-NRs followed by
reductive-deposition of palladium. This catalyst showed high activity in the
catalytic formylation of amines by CO2-H2 under mild conditions with up to 96%
yield.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cc46427j 
PMID: 24217680 


227. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):140-4. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04694j. Epub 2013 Nov 7.

Step-edge self-assembly during graphene nucleation on a nickel surface: QM/MD
simulations.

Wang Y(1), Page AJ, Li HB, Qian HJ, Jiao MG, Wu ZJ, Morokuma K, Irle S.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Rare Earth Resource Utilization, Changchun Institute
of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun, 130022, China.

Quantum chemical molecular dynamics simulations of graphene nucleation on the
Ni(111) surface show that graphene creates its own step-edge as it forms. This
"step-edge self-assembly" is driven by the formation of thermodynamically
favorable Ni-C σ-bonds at the graphene edge. This dynamic aspect of the Ni(111)
catalyst is in contrast to the commonly accepted view that graphene nucleates on 
a pre-existing, static catalyst step-edge. Simulations also show that, simply by 
manipulating the subsurface carbon density, preferential formation of
single-layer graphene instead of multi-layer graphene can be achieved on nickel
catalysts.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04694j 
PMID: 24202187  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J R Soc Interface. 2013 Nov 6;11(90):20130857. doi: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0857. Print
2014 Jan 6.

Energy localization and frequency analysis in the locust ear.

Malkin R(1), McDonagh TR, Mhatre N, Scott TS, Robert D.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, , Woodland Road, Bristol
BS8 1UG, UK.

Animal ears are exquisitely adapted to capture sound energy and perform signal
analysis. Studying the ear of the locust, we show how frequency signal analysis
can be performed solely by using the structural features of the tympanum.
Incident sound waves generate mechanical vibrational waves that travel across the
tympanum. These waves shoal in a tsunami-like fashion, resulting in energy
localization that focuses vibrations onto the mechanosensory neurons in a
frequency-dependent manner. Using finite element analysis, we demonstrate that
two mechanical properties of the locust tympanum, distributed thickness and
tension, are necessary and sufficient to generate frequency-dependent energy
localization.

DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0857 
PMCID: PMC3836324
PMID: 24196693  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Lab Chip. 2014 Jan 7;14(1):229-36. doi: 10.1039/c3lc50762a. Epub 2013 Nov 7.

Paper-based microfluidics with an erodible polymeric bridge giving controlled
release and timed flow shutoff.

Jahanshahi-Anbuhi S(1), Henry A, Leung V, Sicard C, Pennings K, Pelton R, Brennan
JD, Filipe CD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street
West, Hamilton, ON L8S 4M1, Canada. filipec@mcmaster.ca.

Water soluble pullulan films were formatted into paper-based microfluidic
devices, serving as a controlled time shutoff valve. The utility of the valve was
demonstrated by a one-step, fully automatic implementation of a complex pesticide
assay requiring timed, sequential exposure of an immobilized enzyme layer to
separate liquid streams. Pullulan film dissolution and the capillary wicking of
aqueous solutions through the device were measured and modeled providing valve
design criteria. The films dissolve mainly by surface erosion, meaning the film
thickness mainly controls the shutoff time. This method can also provide
time-dependent sequential release of reagents without compromising the simplicity
and low cost of paper-based devices.

DOI: 10.1039/c3lc50762a 
PMID: 24195917  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Analyst. 2014 Jan 7;139(1):138-46. doi: 10.1039/c3an01738a. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Improved accuracy for label-free absolute quantification of proteome by combining
the Absolute Protein EXpression profiling algorithm and summed tandem mass
spectrometric total ion current.

Wu Q(1), Shan Y, Qu Y, Jiang H, Yuan H, Liu J, Zhang S, Liang Z, Zhang L, Zhang
Y.

Author information: 
(1)National Chromatographic Research and Analysis Center, Key Laboratory of
Separation Science for Analytical Chemistry, Dalian Institute of Chemical
Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Dalian, 116023, China.
lihuazhang@dicp.ac.cn.

Proteome scale absolute quantification is fundamental for the quantitative
understanding of an organism. The unsatisfactory accuracy for protein abundance
estimation of current algorithms has been partially improved by the Absolute
Protein EXpression profiling (APEX) algorithm, which implements the prior
expectations of peptides' appearances in the calculation of protein abundances.
However, the abundance feature (AF) in APEX is the spectral count (SC); an AF
suffers from a narrow dynamic range, thus, unsatisfactory accuracy. Therefore, we
adopted another tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) level AF called Summed MS/MS
Total ion current (SMT), which cumulates the MS/MS fragment intensities rather
than simply counting the MS/MS spectra, to surmount this particular deficiency.
The combination of APEX and SMT (abbreviated as APEX-SMT) is capable of improving
the accuracy of absolute quantification by reducing the average relative
deviation by ~55-85% compared to that of APEX, through a series of tests on the
Universal Proteomics Standard sample with a dynamic range of 5 orders of
magnitude (UPS2). The algorithm could also be used for relative quantification.
When applied to the relative quantification of a publicly available benchmark
dataset, APEX-SMT could provide comparable accuracy to APEX. All these results
suggest that APEX-SMT is a promising alternative to APEX for proteome
quantification.

DOI: 10.1039/c3an01738a 
PMID: 24195105  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):300-7. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04319c. Epub 2013 Nov 5.

Thermal stability of Mn2+ ion luminescence in Mn-doped core-shell quantum dots.

Yuan X(1), Zheng J, Zeng R, Jing P, Ji W, Zhao J, Yang W, Li H.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Luminescence and Applications, Changchun Institute of 
Optics, Fine Mechanics and Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 3888 Eastern
South Lake Road, Changchun 130033, China. zhaojl@ciomp.ac.cn.

The thermal stability of luminescence is important for the application of quantum
dots (QDs) in light-emitting devices. The temperature-dependent photoluminescence
(PL) intensities and decay times of Mn-doped ZnS, ZnSe, and ZnSeS alloyed
core-shell QD films were studied in the temperature range from 80 to 500 K by
steady-state and time-resolved PL spectroscopy. It was found that the thermal
stability of Mn-doped QD emissions was significantly dependent on the shell
thickness and the host bandgap, which was higher than that of workhorse CdSe QDs.
Nearly no PL quenching took place in Mn:ZnS QDs with a thick ZnS shell, which
kept a high PL quantum yield (QY) of ~50% even at 500 K; and the thermally stable
PL was also observed in highly luminescent Mn:ZnSe and Mn:ZnSeS QDs with a
quenching temperature over 200 °C. Further, the stability of Mn-doped QDs with
different shell thickness at high temperature was also examined through
heating-cooling cycling experiments. The PL quenching in the thick shell-coated
Mn-doped QDs was almost totally recovered. The PL quenching mechanisms of the
Mn(2+) ion emissions were discussed.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04319c 
PMID: 24192996 


232. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):132-9. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04012g. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

Transparent free-standing metamaterials and their applications in
surface-enhanced Raman scattering.

Wen X(1), Li G, Zhang J, Zhang Q, Peng B, Wong LM, Wang S, Xiong Q.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Physics and Applied Physics, School of Physical and Mathematical
Sciences, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 637371. Qihua@ntu.edu.sg.

Integration of metamaterials onto a flexible substrate can provide many
advantages such as transparency, deformability, light weight and
biocompatibility. Here we demonstrate a simple and convenient nickel sacrificial 
layer-assisted transfer method to fabricate visible-near infrared (IR)
metamaterials embedded into a thin polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) film. Both the
structures and the optical properties are maintained after transferring into the 
PDMS film from a rigid substrate. This PDMS-based metamaterial can behave as a
high performance surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) device with tunable
plasmonic bands, which decouple the preparation of SERS structure and the linkage
of targeted molecules to the plasmonic structures. By simply covering the PDMS
metamaterials device on the surface with molecules of interest, we demonstrate
the application of 2-naphthalenethiol molecules self-assembled on a Au film,
highlighting the considerable potential of these PDMS metamaterials as a SERS
stamp onto any other substrate. What's more, the PDMS-based nanostructures offer 
a representative model to investigate the interaction between the plasmonic
nanostructure and the substrate consisting of different materials by placing PDMS
on the surface of the substrate.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04012g 
PMID: 24192898 


233. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):272-81. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04631a. Epub 2013 Nov 4.

The structure of graphene oxide membranes in liquid water, ethanol and
water-ethanol mixtures.

Talyzin AV(1), Hausmaninger T, You S, Szabó T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics, Umeå University, Umeå, SE-901 87, Sweden.
Alexandr.talyzin@physics.umu.se.

The structure of graphene oxide (GO) membranes was studied in situ in liquid
solvents using synchrotron radiation X-ray diffraction in a broad temperature
interval. GO membranes are hydrated by water similarly to precursor graphite
oxide powders but intercalation of alcohols is strongly hindered, which explains 
why the GO membranes are permeated by water and not by ethanol. Insertion of
ethanol into the membrane structure is limited to only one monolayer in the whole
studied temperature range, in contrast to precursor graphite oxide powders, which
are intercalated with up to two ethanol monolayers (Brodie) and four ethanol
monolayers (Hummers). As a result, GO membranes demonstrate the absence of
"negative thermal expansion" and phase transitions connected to
insertion/de-insertion of alcohols upon temperature variations reported earlier
for graphite oxide powders. Therefore, GO membranes are a distinct type of
material with unique solvation properties compared to parent graphite oxides even
if they are composed of the same graphene oxide flakes.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04631a 
PMID: 24189605  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Nanoscale. 2014 Jan 7;6(1):255-62. doi: 10.1039/c3nr04425d. Epub 2013 Nov 1.

Multi-enzyme co-embedded organic-inorganic hybrid nanoflowers: synthesis and
application as a colorimetric sensor.

Sun J(1), Ge J, Liu W, Lan M, Zhang H, Wang P, Wang Y, Niu Z.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Photochemical Conversion and Optoelectronic Materials,
Technical Institute of Physics and Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, China. jchge2010@mail.ipc.ac.cn wangpf@mail.ipc.ac.cn.

This study reports a facile method for the synthesis of multi-enzyme co-embedded 
organic-inorganic hybrid nanoflowers, using glucose oxidase (GOx) and horseradish
peroxidase (HRP) as the organic components, and Cu3(PO4)2 · 3H2O as the inorganic
component. The synthesized nanoflowers enable the combination of a two-enzyme
cascade reaction in one step, in which the GOx component of the nanoflowers
oxidizes glucose to generate H2O2, which then reacts with the adjacent HRP
component on the nanoflowers to oxidize the chromogenic substrates, resulting in 
an apparent color change. Given the close proximity of the two enzyme components 
in a single nanoflower, this novel sensor greatly reduces the diffusion and
decomposition of H2O2, and greatly enhances the sensitivity of glucose detection.
Thus, the obtained multi-enzyme co-embedded organic-inorganic hybrid nanoflowers 
can be unquestionably used as highly sensitive colorimetric sensors for the
detection of glucose. Notably, this work presents a very facile route for the
synthesis of multi-enzyme co-embedded nanomaterials for the simultaneous
catalysis of multi-step cascade enzymatic reactions. Furthermore, it has great
potential for application in biotechnology, and biomedical and environmental
chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr04425d 
PMID: 24186239  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Br J Cancer. 2014 Jan 7;110(1):107-14. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2013.694. Epub 2013 Oct
31.

Increased microvascular proliferation is negatively correlated to tumour blood
flow and is associated with unfavourable outcome in endometrial carcinomas.

Haldorsen IS(1), Stefansson I(2), Grüner R(3), Husby JA(1), Magnussen IJ(4),
Werner HM(5), Salvesen ØO(6), Bjørge L(5), Trovik J(5), Taxt T(7), Akslen LA(2), 
Salvesen HB(5).

Author information: 
(1)1] Department of Radiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Jonas Liesvei 65,
Postbox 7800, 5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Section for Radiology, Centre for Cancer
Biomarkers, Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Bergen, 5020 Bergen,
Norway.
(2)1] Centre for Cancer Biomarkers, The Gade Institute, Department of Clinical
Medicine, University of Bergen, 5020 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Pathology, 
Haukeland University Hospital, 5021 Bergen, Norway.
(3)1] Department of Radiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Jonas Liesvei 65,
Postbox 7800, 5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Physics and Technology,
University of Bergen, 5020 Bergen, Norway.
(4)Department of Radiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Jonas Liesvei 65,
Postbox 7800, 5021 Bergen, Norway.
(5)1] Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Haukeland University Hospital,
5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Centre for Cancer Biomarkers, Department of Clinical
Science, University of Bergen, 5020 Bergen, Norway.
(6)Unit for applied Clinical Research, Department of Cancer Research and
Molecular Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Postbox 8905,
7491 Trondheim, Norway.
(7)1] Department of Radiology, Haukeland University Hospital, Jonas Liesvei 65,
Postbox 7800, 5021 Bergen, Norway [2] Department of Biomedicine, University of
Bergen, 5020 Bergen, Norway.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to study the angiogenic profile based on histomorphological 
markers in endometrial carcinomas in relation to imaging parameters obtained from
preoperative dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and
diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) and to explore the potential value of these
markers to identify patients with poor outcome.
METHODS: In fifty-four surgically staged endometrial carcinoma patients,
immunohistochemical staining with factor VIII and Ki67 allowed assessment of
microvessel density (MVD) and microvascular proliferation reflecting tumour
angiogenesis. In the same patients, preoperative pelvic DCE-MRI and DWI allowed
the calculation of parameters describing tumour microvasculature and
microstructure in vivo.
RESULTS: Microvascular proliferation was negatively correlated to tumour blood
flow (Fb) (r=-0.36, P=0.008), capillary permeability surface area product (PS)
(r=-0.39, P=0.004) and transfer from the blood to extravascular extracellular
space (EES) (Ktrans) (r=-0.40, P=0.003), and was positively correlated to tumour 
volume (r=0.34; P=0.004). High-tumour microvascular proliferation, low Fb and low
Ktrans were all significantly associated with reduced progression/recurrence-free
survival (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Disorganised angiogenesis with coexisting microvascular proliferation
and low tumour blood flow is a poor prognostic factor supporting that hypoxia is 
associated with progression and metastatic spread in endometrial carcinomas.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2013.694 
PMCID: PMC3887294
PMID: 24178757  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J R Soc Interface. 2013 Oct 30;11(90):20130847. doi: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0847.
Print 2014 Jan 6.

Investigating the rheological properties of native plant latex.

Bauer G(1), Friedrich C, Gillig C, Vollrath F, Speck T, Holland C.

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biomechanics Group, Botanic Garden, Faculty of Biology, University of
Freiburg, , Schänzlestraße 1, Freiburg 79104, Germany.

Plant latex, the source of natural rubber, has been of interest to mankind for
millennia, with much of the research on its rheological (flow) properties focused
towards industrial application. However, little is known regarding the rheology
of the native material as produced by the plant, a key factor in determining
latex's biological functions. In this study, we outline a method for rheological 
comparison between native latices that requires a minimum of preparatory steps.
Our approach provides quantitative insights into the coagulation mechanisms of
Euphorbia and Ficus latex allowing interpretation within a comparative
evolutionary framework. Our findings reveal that in laboratory conditions both
latices behave like non-Newtonian materials with the coagulation of Euphorbia
latex being mediated by a slow evaporative process (more than 60 min), whereas
Ficus appears to use additional biochemical components to increase the rate of
coagulation (more than 30 min). Based on these results, we propose two different 
primary defensive roles for latex in these plants: the delivery of anti-herbivory
compounds (Euphorbia) and rapid wound healing (Ficus).

DOI: 10.1098/rsif.2013.0847 
PMCID: PMC3836322
PMID: 24173604  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Lab Chip. 2014 Jan 7;14(1):182-8. doi: 10.1039/c3lc50935d.

A microdevice for rapid optical detection of magnetically captured rare blood
pathogens.

Cooper RM(1), Leslie DC, Domansky K, Jain A, Yung C, Cho M, Workman S, Super M,
Ingber DE.

Author information: 
(1)Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University, 3 
Blackfan Circle, CLSB 517, Boston, MA 02118, USA. don.ingber@wyss.harvard.edu.

Sepsis diagnosis requires development of methods to identify rare pathogen cells 
in small samples of human blood. Magnetic beads functionalized with
pathogen-binding ligands have been used to rapidly isolate microbes from blood;
however, it is commonly difficult to optically detect the captured species
because the excess numbers of beads required for pathogen binding physically
interfere with light transmission after they have been concentrated. Here we
describe a microdevice that uses microfluidics combined with optimized magnetic
field concentrators and magnetic beads coated with a generic blood opsonin to
efficiently capture unknown blood pathogens and spread them into a thin layer
suitable for automated optical detection. Using this device, we have been able to
detect fungal pathogens in less than three hours after sample collection compared
to days with current technology, and with an extremely high sensitivity (<1 cell 
mL(-1) of human blood).

DOI: 10.1039/c3lc50935d 
PMID: 24169822  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Dalton Trans. 2014 Jan 7;43(1):55-62. doi: 10.1039/c3dt51950c.

A DFT study of the mechanism of copper-catalyzed synthesis of 2H-indazoles from
aryl azide.

Li J(1), Zhang Q, Wu C, Gu H, Yan B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Jinan University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 510632, P. R. 
China. tchjli@jnu.edu.cn.

DFT calculations have been performed to study the reaction mechanism of N-N bond 
formation from aryl azide catalyzed by the copper(I) iodide complex. We studied
various activation modes for the azide group, and found that the azide group is
activated by the Cu(μ-I)2Cu(TMEDA) dimer coordinating to the N-atom of phenyl
imine and the internal N-atom of azide.

DOI: 10.1039/c3dt51950c 
PMID: 24165781  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):61-70. doi: 10.1039/c3cp52811a.

Ground state spectroscopy of hydroxyquinolines: evidence for the formation of
protonated species in water-rich dioxane-water mixtures.

Abou-Zied OK(1), Husband J, Al-Lawatia N, Steinbrecher TB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Science, Sultan Qaboos University, P.O.
Box 36, Postal Code 123, Muscat, Sultanate of Oman. abouzied@squ.edu.om.

We have recently used 6-, 7-, and 8-hydroxyquinolines (HQs) as fluorescent probes
to study the binding mechanism in one of the drug binding sites of human serum
albumin. In the present work we study the absorption spectra of the HQ molecules 
in neat and binary mixtures of dioxane and water in order to identify the
different tautomeric species in the ground state. This study should help in
identifying the environment in nanocavities of macromolecules when HQs are used
as local reporters. The enol form is shown to be the only tautomer for the three 
HQs in dioxane and water, with the exception of 7HQ in which both the enol and
the zwitterion tautomers exist in equilibrium in water. The results are confirmed
by the density functional theory (DFT) calculations using the B3LYP method with a
6-311++G(2d,p) basis set. In water-rich dioxane mixtures, all HQs are protonated.
The results were confirmed by comparing the absorption spectra in binary solvents
with those in acidic and basic aqueous solutions, and by DFT calculations of the 
Franck-Condon S1 ← S0 transitions. The number of water molecules solvating the
polar sites in each HQ molecule was estimated from the spectral change in the
binary solvent mixtures, and structures were calculated by DFT. Mapping the water
density around the polar sites in each HQ using molecular dynamics (MD)
simulations shows well-defined hydrogen bonds around the N-heteroatom in each HQ 
molecule. Water density is only well-defined around the hydroxyl group in 8HQ.
The MD simulations indicate free rotation of the OH group in 6HQ and 7HQ, and the
stability of the cis-isomer in 8HQ. The results point to the unique spectral
signatures of 7HQ in water which make this molecule a potential probe to detect
the presence of water in nanocavities of macromolecules, and to the ability of
the three HQs to detect acidic media in binding sites.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp52811a 
PMID: 24158492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Analyst. 2014 Jan 7;139(1):55-8. doi: 10.1039/c3an01716h. Epub 2013 Oct 24.

Monitoring the mineralisation of bone nodules in vitro by space- and
time-resolved Raman micro-spectroscopy.

Ghita A(1), Pascut FC, Sottile V, Notingher I.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics and Astronomy, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7
2RD, UK. ioan.notingher@nottingham.ac.uk.

Raman microscopy was used as a label-free method to study the mineralisation of
bone nodules formed by mesenchymal stem cells cultured in osteogenic medium in
vitro. Monitoring individual bone nodules over 28 days revealed temporal and
spatial changes in the crystalline phase of the hydroxyapatite components of the 
nodules.

DOI: 10.1039/c3an01716h 
PMID: 24153382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


241. J Comput Chem. 2014 Jan 5;35(1):1-17. doi: 10.1002/jcc.23449. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Geometrical and optical benchmarking of copper guanidine-quinoline complexes:
insights from TD-DFT and many-body perturbation theory.

Jesser A(1), Rohrmüller M, Schmidt WG, Herres-Pawlis S.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Department Chemie, Butenandtstr. 5-13,
81377, München, Germany.

We report a comprehensive computational benchmarking of the structural and
optical properties of a bis(chelate) copper(I) guanidine-quinoline complex. Using
various (TD-)DFT flavors a strong influence of the basis set is found. Moreover, 
the amount of exact exchange shifts metal-to-ligand bands by 1 eV through the
absorption spectrum. The BP86/6-311G(d) and B3LYP/def2-TZVP functional/basis set 
combinations were found to yield results in best agreement with the experimental 
data. In order to probe the general applicability of TD-DFT to excitations of
copper bis(chelate) charge-transfer (CT) systems, we studied a small model system
that on the one hand is accessible to methods of many-body perturbation theory
(MBPT) but still contains simple guanidine and imine groups. These calculations
show that large quasiparticle energies of the order of several electronvolts are 
largely offset by exciton binding energies for optical excitations and that
TD-DFT excitation energies deviate from MBPT results by at most 0.5 eV, further
corroborating the reliability of our TD-DFT results. The latter result in a
multitude of MLCT bands ranging from the visible region at 3.4 eV into the UV at 
5.5 eV for the bis(chelate) complex. Molecular orbital analysis provided insight 
into the CT within these systems but gave mixed transitions. A meaningful
transition assignment is possible, however, by using natural transition orbitals.
Additionally, we performed a thorough conformational analysis as the correct
description of the copper coordination is crucial for the prediction of optical
spectra. We found that DFT identifies the correct conformational minimum and that
the MLCTs are strongly dependent on the torsion of the chelate angles at the
copper center. From the results, it is concluded that extensive benchmarking
allows for the quantitative analyses of the CT behavior of copper bis(chelate)
complexes within TD-DFT.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcc.23449 
PMID: 24122864  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Dalton Trans. 2014 Jan 7;43(1):111-8. doi: 10.1039/c3dt51773j.

Yb3+ sensitized Er3+ doped La2O3 phosphor in temperature sensors and display
devices.

Dey R(1), Rai VK.

Author information: 
(1)Laser and Spectroscopy Laboratory, Department of Applied Physics, Indian
School of Mines, Dhanbad-826004, Jharkhand, India. vineetkrrai@yahoo.co.in
rai.vk.ap@ismdhanbad.ac.in.

The frequency upconversion emissions in the Er(3+)/Er(3+)-Yb(3+) doped/codoped
hexagonal shaped La2O3 phosphor characterized by X-ray diffraction (XRD) upon
excitation with 980 nm and 800 nm CW lasers have been investigated. The
upconversion emissions corresponding to the (2)H(9/2) → (4)I(15/2), (2)H(11/2) → 
(4)I(15/2), (4)S(3/2) → (4)I(15/2) and (4)F(9/2) → (4)I(15/2) transitions peaking
at 409 nm, 523 nm, 548 nm and 660 nm have been observed under 980 nm excitation
whereas 523 nm, 548 nm and 660 nm upconversion emission bands have been
visualized under 808 nm excitation. The upconversion emission intensity of Er(3+)
ions is enhanced by several times due to the codoping with Yb(3+) ions, under 980
nm excitation while there is a reduction in intensity in the codoped sample under
808 nm excitation. The decay curve analysis for the green UC emission band
corresponding to the (4)S(3/2) → (4)I(15/2) transition in the
Er(3+)/Er(3+)-Yb(3+) doped/codoped La2O3 phosphor upon 980 nm excitation has been
done. The colour coordinate of the phosphor sample has been calculated at
different pump powers and its value is observed to be almost similar to that of
the standard green colour and also independent of the excitation power density.
The effect of temperature on the upconversion emission intensity of the green
emissions has been determined and noted that the present phosphor material can be
used in making temperature sensing device upto 600 K.

DOI: 10.1039/c3dt51773j 
PMID: 24100943 


243. Dalton Trans. 2014 Jan 7;43(1):306-10. doi: 10.1039/c3dt52157e.

Insight into highly selective photocatalytic oxidation of alcohols by a new
trinuclear ruthenium complex with visible light.

Chao D(1), Fu WF.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Photochemical Conversion and Optoelectronic Materials,
Technical Institute of Physics and Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing 100190, P.R. China.

A new ligand bearing two tpy moieties and one bpy unit (tpy =
2,2':6',2''-terpyridine; bpy = 2,2'-bipyridine) linked by carbon-carbon single
bonds and its corresponding trinuclear ruthenium complex were readily synthesized
in high yield, and characterized by (1)H NMR spectroscopy, high-resolution
electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HR-ESI/MS) and elemental analysis. The
ruthenium complex exhibited moderate catalytic activity towards selective
oxidation of alcohols in water with visible light under an air atmosphere.
Investigations of UV/vis spectra, electrochemistry and ESI/MS suggested that the 
catalytic cycle involves two processes, Ru(c)(II)-OH2/Ru(c)(III)-OH and
Ru(c)(III)-OH/Ru(c)(IV)=O. The effective electron transfer from the excited state
*[Ru(tpy)2](2+) to [Co(NH3)5Cl]Cl2 is proposed to be responsible for the good
activities of this visible-light-driven system under an air atmosphere.

DOI: 10.1039/c3dt52157e 
PMID: 24100353 


244. Dalton Trans. 2014 Jan 7;43(1):222-30. doi: 10.1039/c3dt51659h.

Synthesis and characterization of phosphine-(thio)phenolate-based
half-zirconocenes and their application in ethylene (co-)polymerization.

Tang XY(1), Long YY, Wang YX, Liu JY, Li YS.

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Polymer Physics and Chemistry, Changchun Institute of 
Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Changchun 130022, China.
ljy@ciac.jl.cn.

A series of novel half-zirconocenes containing phosphine-(thio)phenolate
chelating ligands of the type Cp'Zr(thf)Cl2[X-2-R(1)-4-R(2)-6-(PPh2)C6H2] (Cp' = 
C5Me5, 2a: X = O, R(1) = Ph, R(2) = H; 2b: X = O, R(1) = (t)Bu, R(2) = H; 2c: X =
O, R(1) = R(2) = (t)Bu; 2d: X = O, R(1) = SiMe3, R(2) = H; 2e: X = S, R(1) =
SiMe3, R(2) = H; Cp' = C5H5, 3b: X = O, R(1) = (t)Bu, R(2) = H; 3c: X = O, R(1) =
R(2) = (t)Bu; 3d: X = O, R(1) = SiMe3, R(2) = H; 3e: X = S, R(1) = SiMe3, R(2) = 
H) have been synthesized in high yields (74-85%). These complexes were identified
by (1)H, (13)C and (31)P NMR as well as elemental analyses. Structural analysis
for 2a-b and 2d revealed that these complexes adopt six-coordinate, distorted
octahedral geometry around the zirconium center. These novel half-zirconocenes
possessed high catalytic performance for ethylene polymerization at high
temperature in the presence of MMAO. The phosphine-phenolate-based Cp* complexes 
produced high molecular weight polymers (M(W) > 400,000), while the Cp analogues 
displayed much higher activities at high temperature. Complex 3c with MMAO showed
a maximum ethylene polymerization activity of 17,580 kg mol(Zr)(-1) h(-1) at 75
°C. In addition, the Cp based complexes 3b-e could promote ethylene and 1-hexene 
copolymerization with high activities.

DOI: 10.1039/c3dt51659h 
PMID: 24097353 


245. Org Biomol Chem. 2014 Jan 7;12(1):187-99. doi: 10.1039/c3ob41628c. Epub 2013 Oct 
1.

Unraveling polar Diels-Alder reactions with conceptual DFT analysis and the
distortion/interaction model.

Sarotti AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Química Rosario (CONICET), Facultad de Ciencias Bioquímicas y
Farmacéuticas, Universidad Nacional de Rosario, Suipacha 531, Rosario 2000,
Argentina. sarotti@iquir-conicet.gov.ar.

The reaction energetics of 280 polar Diels-Alder (DA) reactions between 70
dienophiles and 4 dienes have been studied in detail using the B3LYP/6-31G* level
of theory, combining conceptual density functional theory (DFT) analysis and the 
distortion/interaction model. The barrier heights are governed by a fine balance 
between the energy required to distort the reactants from their initial to their 
transition state geometries (ΔE++d) and the binding energy between the deformed
reactants in the TS (ΔE++i). The ΔE++i values strongly correlate with the
electrophilicity index, ω, which measures the stabilization energy when the
system acquires an additional electronic charge from the environment, whereas the
ΔE++d was found to depend mainly on the nature of the diene, structural
parameters of the dienophile (degree of substitution and ring size) and the
asynchronicity of the TS. A detailed analysis to account for the geometrical
parameters of the strained diene and dienophile moieties that influence the
energy strain of the distorted fragments is also reported.

DOI: 10.1039/c3ob41628c 
PMID: 24085334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Chem Soc Rev. 2014 Jan 7;43(1):99-122. doi: 10.1039/c3cs60178a. Epub 2013 Sep 26.

Functional interlocked systems.

van Dongen SF(1), Cantekin S, Elemans JA, Rowan AE, Nolte RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen, Institute for Molecules and Materials,
Heyendaalseweg 135, 6525 AJ Nijmegen, The Netherlands. R.Nolte@science.ru.nl.

With the advent of supramolecular chemistry and later nanotechnology a great deal
of research has been focused on new types of molecular structures, which are not 
held together by covalent bonds but by non-covalent mechanical interactions.
Examples include the catenane, rotaxane, and knot interlocked structures. The
design and synthesis of these architectures is an art by itself and as such is
worth being reviewed. In this tutorial review we will focus, however, on the
functional aspects of interlocked molecules and discuss how these can find
applications, e.g. as artificial muscles, as molecular valves, as components of
electronic devices, and as catalysts.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cs60178a 
PMID: 24071686  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Theor Biol. 2014 Jan 7;340:164-76. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.09.021. Epub 2013
Sep 21.

Neural field theory of synaptic metaplasticity with applications to theta burst
stimulation.

Fung PK(1), Robinson PA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Physics, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia; Brain
Dynamics Center, Sydney Medical School - Western, The University of Sydney,
Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia. Electronic address: F.Fung@physics.usyd.edu.au.

Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is characterized by strong nonlinear
plasticity effects. Experimental results that highlight such nonlinearity include
continuous and intermittent theta-burst stimulations (cTBS and iTBS,
respectively), where depression is induced in the continuous case, but insertion 
of an off period of around 8s for every 2s of stimulation changes the induced
plasticity to potentiation in the intermittent case. Another nonlinearity is that
cTBS and iTBS exhibit dosage dependency, where doubling of the stimulation
duration changes the direction of induced plasticity. Guided by previous
experimental results, this study postulates on the characteristics of
metaplasticity and formulates a physiological system-level plasticity theory to
predict TMS experiments. In this theory, plasticity signaling induces plasticity 
in NMDA receptors to modulate further plasticity signals, and is followed by a
signal transduction delayed plasticity expression. Since this plasticity in NMDA 
receptor affects subsequent plasticity induction, it is a form of metaplasticity.
Incorporating this metaplasticity into a recent neural field theory of calcium
dependent plasticity gives a physiological basis for the theory of Bienenstock,
Cooper, Munro (1982), where postsynaptic intracellular calcium level becomes the 
measure of temporal averaged postsynaptic activity, and converges to the
plasticity threshold to give homeostatic effects. Simulations of TMS protocol
responses show that intracellular calcium oscillations around the threshold
predicts the aforementioned nonlinearities in TMS-induced plasticity, as well as 
the interpersonal TBS response polarity found experimentally, where the same
protocol may induce opposite plasticity effect for different subjects. Thereby,
recommendations for future experiments and TMS protocol optimizations are made.
Input selectivity via spatially extended, mean field neural dynamics is also
explored.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.09.021 
PMID: 24060620  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Theor Biol. 2014 Jan 7;340:119-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.09.016. Epub 2013
Sep 20.

Generalized hydromechanical model for stomatal responses to hydraulic
perturbations.

Kwon HW(1), Choi MY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Astronomy and Center for Theoretical Physics, Seoul 
National University, Seoul 151-747, Republic of Korea; School of Physics, Korea
Institute for Advanced Study, Seoul 130-722, Republic of Korea.

Stomata respond in a common pattern to various hydraulic perturbations on any
part of the 'soil-plant-air' system: initial transient 'wrong-way' responses and 
final stationary 'right-way' responses. In order to describe this pattern on the 
basis of statistical physics, we propose a simple model where turgor pressure of 
a cell is taken to be a power function of its volume, and obtain results in
qualitative agreement with experimental data for responses to a variety of
hydraulic perturbations: Firstly, stationary stomatal conductance as a function
of the vapor pressure deficit divides into three regimes characterized by
sensitivities of the stomatal conductance and the transpiration rate with respect
to vapor pressure deficit; secondly, for every hydraulic perturbation, the
initial transient 'wrong-way' responses always appear; thirdly, on condition that
water is supplied insufficiently, stomatal oscillations are often observed;
finally, stomatal responses following leaf excision exhibit, after the initial
transient wrong-way responses, slow relaxation to stomatal closing. In
particular, comparison of areoles having different numbers of stomata
demonstrates that areoles with small numbers of stomata tend to provoke lack of
water in the soil as well as in the plant. In addition, our model also describes 
well dependence of the stomatal conductance on temperature. It may be extended
further to describe stomatal responses to other environmental factors such as
carbon dioxide, light, and temperature.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.09.016 
PMID: 24060618  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Org Biomol Chem. 2014 Jan 7;12(1):62-72. doi: 10.1039/c3ob41522h. Epub 2013 Sep
12.

Acylthioureas as anion transporters: the effect of intramolecular hydrogen
bonding.

Haynes CJ(1), Busschaert N, Kirby IL, Herniman J, Light ME, Wells NJ, Marques I, 
Félix V, Gale PA.

Author information: 
(1)Chemistry, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.
philip.gale@soton.ac.uk.

Small molecule synthetic anion transporters may have potential application as
therapeutic agents for the treatment of diseases including cystic fibrosis and
cancer. Understanding the factors that can dictate the anion transport activity
of such transporters is a crucial step towards their application in biological
systems. In this study a series of acylthiourea anion transporters were
synthesised and their anion binding and transport properties in POPC bilayers
have been investigated. The transport activity of these receptors is dominated by
their lipophilicity, which is in turn dependent on both substituent effects and
the formation and strength of an intramolecular hydrogen bond as inferred from
DFT calculations. This is in contrast to simpler thiourea systems, in which the
lipophilicity depends predominantly on substituent effects alone.

DOI: 10.1039/c3ob41522h 
PMID: 24056984  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Lab Chip. 2014 Jan 7;14(1):78-88. doi: 10.1039/c3lc50580d.

Isolation and mutational analysis of circulating tumor cells from lung cancer
patients with magnetic sifters and biochips.

Earhart CM(1), Hughes CE, Gaster RS, Ooi CC, Wilson RJ, Zhou LY, Humke EW, Xu L, 
Wong DJ, Willingham SB, Schwartz EJ, Weissman IL, Jeffrey SS, Neal JW, Rohatgi R,
Wakelee HA, Wang SX.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Materials Science and Engineering, Stanford University,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Detection and characterization of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) may reveal
insights into the diagnosis and treatment of malignant disease. Technologies for 
isolating CTCs developed thus far suffer from one or more limitations, such as
low throughput, inability to release captured cells, and reliance on expensive
instrumentation for enrichment or subsequent characterization. We report a
continuing development of a magnetic separation device, the magnetic sifter,
which is a miniature microfluidic chip with a dense array of magnetic pores. It
offers high efficiency capture of tumor cells, labeled with magnetic
nanoparticles, from whole blood with high throughput and efficient release of
captured cells. For subsequent characterization of CTCs, an assay, using a
protein chip with giant magnetoresistive nanosensors, has been implemented for
mutational analysis of CTCs enriched with the magnetic sifter. The use of these
magnetic technologies, which are separate devices, may lead the way to routine
preparation and characterization of "liquid biopsies" from cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1039/c3lc50580d 
PMCID: PMC4144998
PMID: 23969419  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2014 Jan 7;16(1):38-47. doi: 10.1039/c3cp52359d.

Electronically excited states and photochemical reaction mechanisms of β-glucose.

Tuna D(1), Sobolewski AL, Domcke W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, Technische Universität München, 85747 Garching,
Germany. deniz.tuna@ch.tum.de.

Carbohydrates are important molecular components of living matter. While
spectroscopic and computational studies have been performed on carbohydrates in
the electronic ground state, the lack of a chromophore complicates the
elucidation of the excited-state properties and the photochemistry of this class 
of compounds. Herein, we report on the first computational investigation of the
singlet photochemistry of β-glucose. It is shown that low-lying singlet excited
states are of nσ* nature. Our computations of the singlet vertical excitation
energies predict absorption from 6.0 eV onward. Owing to a dense manifold of
weakly-absorbing states, a sizable and broad absorption in the ultraviolet-C
range arises. We have explored two types of photochemical reaction mechanisms:
hydrogen-detachment processes for each of the five O-H groups and a C-O
ring-opening process. Both types of reactions are driven by repulsive nσ* states 
that are readily accessible from the Franck-Condon region and lead to conical
intersections in a barrierless fashion. We have optimized the geometries of the
conical intersections involved in these photochemical processes and found that
these intersections are located around 5.0 eV for the O-H hydrogen-detachment
reactions and around 4.0 eV for the C-O ring-opening reaction. The energies of
all conical intersections are well below the computed absorption edge. The
calculations were performed using linear-response methods for the computation of 
the vertical excitation energies and multiconfigurational methods for the
optimization of conical intersections and the computation of energy profiles.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cp52359d 
PMID: 23959595  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

