
1. Oncol Lett. 2019 Mar;17(3):2825-2835. doi: 10.3892/ol.2019.9900. Epub 2019 Jan 8.

Identification of B-cell translocation gene 1-controlled gene networks in diffuse
large B-cell lymphoma: A study based on bioinformatics analysis.

Yan W(1), Li SX(2), Gao H(1), Yang W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Hematology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University,
Shenyang, Liaoning 110022, P.R. China.
(2)International College, China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110022,
P.R. China.

B-cell translocation gene 1 (BTG1) is a member of the BTG/transducer of Erb
family. The present study evaluated the impact of BTG1 gene expression on the
clinical outcome of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and investigated
potential mechanisms using the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. The gene
expression profile datasets GSE31312, GSE10846, GSE65420 and GSE87371 were
downloaded from the GEO database. BTG1 expression and clinicopathological data
were obtained from the GSE31312 dataset. In 498 cases, the expression of BTG1 in 
DLBCL was associated with treatment response (χ2=19.020; P<0.001) and
International Prognostic Index score (χ2=5.320; P=0.025). Using the Kaplan-Meier 
method, it was identified that the expression of BTG1 was associated with overall
survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) times. Univariate and
multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that BTG1 was an independent
predictive factor for OS and PFS. From the overlapping analysis of 407
BTG1-associated genes and 22,187 DLBCL-associated genes, 401 genes were
identified as BTG1-associated DLBCL genes. Pathway analysis revealed that
BTG1-associated DLBCL genes were associated with cancer progression and DLBCL
signaling pathways. Subsequently, a protein-protein interaction network was
constructed of the BTG1-associated genes, which consisted of 235 genes and 601
interactions. Additionally, 24 genes with high degrees in the network were
identified as hub genes, which included genes associated with 'ribosome'
[ribosomal protein (RP) L11, RPL3, RPS29, RPL19, RPL15 and RPL12], 'cell cycle'
(ubiquitin carboxyl extension protein 52, ATM and Ras homolog family member H),
'mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway' (mitogen-activated protein kinase 1), 
'histone modification' (ASH1-like protein) and 'transcription/translation'
(eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit E, eukaryotic translation
elongation factor 1 δ, transcription termination factor 1, cAMP responsive
element binding protein 1 and RNA polymerase II subunit F). In conclusion, BTG1
may serve as a predictive biomarker for DLBCL prognosis. Additionally,
bioinformatics analysis indicated that BTG1 may exhibit key functions in the
progression and development of DLBCL.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2019.9900 
PMCID: PMC6365947
PMID: 30854058 


2. Mol Med Rep. 2019 Mar;19(3):2065-2076. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2019.9849. Epub 2019 Jan 
11.

Identification of key genes and pathways involved in microsatellite instability
in colorectal cancer.

Yu C(1), Hong H(1), Zhang S(1), Zong Y(1), Ma J(1), Lu A(1), Sun J(1), Zheng
M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of General Surgery, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai 200025, P.R. China.

Microsatellite instability (MSI) has emerged as one of the key biological
features of colorectal cancer (CRC). However, controversies remain regarding the 
association between the MSI status and clinicopathological characteristics of
CRC. Therefore, it is crucial to identify potential key genes and pathways
associated with MSI in CRC. In the present study, the GSE25071 gene expression
profile was retrieved, with thirty‑eight cases of microsatellite stable (MSS),
five of MSI‑High (MSI‑H) and three of MSI‑Low (MSI‑L) CRC patients. The
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were analyzed by Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment, gene set enrichment
analysis (GSEA) and gene co‑expression network analysis. Weighted gene
correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was used for the gene modules and
correlation of clinical traits. A total of forty‑nine DEGs were identified
between MSI‑H and MSS, including six upregulated and forty‑three downregulated
DEGs. Only the DEGs of MSI‑H and MSS were subjected to subsequent analysis
(limited number of DEGs of MSI‑L and MSS, MSI‑H and MSI‑L). RNA metabolic
process, endoplasmic reticulum and chemokine receptor binding were the top ranked
terms in GO enrichment. The hub genes of co‑expression network of DEGs included
zinc finger protein (ZNF) 813, ZNF426, ZNF611, ZNF320 and ZNF573. The GSEA of
MSI‑H and MSS indicated that the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1
signaling was significantly enriched with a nominal P‑value of 0.038 and
normalized enrichment score of 0.446. The WGCNA results showed that the pink
module was the top in correlation with MSI status (R2=0.5, P=0.0004). The genes
in the pink module were significantly enriched in proteins targeting to
endoplasmic reticulum, cytosolic part, structural constituent of ribosome and
ribosome pathway. The hub genes identified in the pink module were ribosomal
protein L12 (RPL12), RPS3A, RPS9, RPL27A, RPL7, RPL28, RPL14, RPS17,
mitochondrial ribosomal protein L16, and G elongation factor, mitochondrial 2.
The present study identified key genes and pathways associated with MSI,
providing insightful mechanisms.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2019.9849 
PMCID: PMC6390070
PMID: 30664178 


3. Comput Biol Chem. 2019 Feb;78:431-439. doi: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2018.12.011.
Epub 2018 Dec 26.

Network-based approach to identify molecular signatures and therapeutic agents in
Alzheimer's disease.

Rahman MR(1), Islam T(2), Turanli B(3), Zaman T(4), Faruquee HM(5), Rahman MM(2),
Mollah MNH(6), Nanda RK(7), Arga KY(8), Gov E(9), Moni MA(10).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Islamic University,
Kushtia, Bangladesh; Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, School of
Biomedical Science, Khwaja Yunus Ali University, Sirajgonj, Bangladesh.
(2)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Islamic University,
Kushtia, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Istanbul Medeniyet University, Istanbul, Turkey;
Department of Bioengineering, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, School of Biomedical Science,
Khwaja Yunus Ali University, Sirajgonj, Bangladesh.
(5)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Islamic University,
Kushtia, Bangladesh; Translational Health, International Centre for Genetic
Engineering and Biotechnology, New Delhi, India.
(6)Laboratory of Bioinformatics, Department of Statistics, University of
Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh.
(7)Translational Health, International Centre for Genetic Engineering and
Biotechnology, New Delhi, India.
(8)Department of Bioengineering, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey.
(9)Department of Bioengineering, Adana Science and Technology University, Adana, 
Turkey. Electronic address: egov@adanabtu.edu.tr.
(10)The University of Sydney, Sydney Medical School, School of Medical Sciences, 
Discipline of Biomedical Science, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Electronic 
address: mohammad.moni@sydney.edu.au.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a dynamic degeneration of the brain with progressive 
dementia. Considering the uncertainties in its molecular mechanism, in the
present study, we employed network-based integrative analyses, and aimed to
explore the key molecules and their associations with small drugs to identify
potential biomarkers and therapeutic agents for the AD. First of all, we studied 
a transcriptome dataset and identified 1521 differentially expressed genes
(DEGs). Integration of transcriptome data with protein-protein and
transcriptional regulatory interactions resulted with central (hub) proteins
(UBA52, RAC1, CREBBP, AR, RPS11, SMAD3, RPS6, RPL12, RPL15, and UBC), regulatory 
transcription factors (FOXC1, GATA2, YY1, FOXL1, NFIC, E2F1, USF2, SRF, PPARG,
and JUN) and microRNAs (mir-335-5p, mir-26b-5p, mir-93-5p, mir-124-3p, mir-17-5p,
mir-16-5p, mir-20a-5p, mir-92a-3p, mir-106b-5p, and mir-192-5p) as key signaling 
and regulatory molecules associated with transcriptional changes for the AD.
Considering these key molecules as potential therapeutic targets and Connectivity
Map (CMap) architecture, candidate small molecular agents (such as STOCK1N-35696)
were identified as novel potential therapeutics for the AD. This study presents
molecular signatures at RNA and protein levels which might be useful in
increasing discernment of the molecular mechanisms, and potential drug targets
and therapeutics to design effective treatment strategies for the AD.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2018.12.011 
PMID: 30606694  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Mol Cell. 2018 Oct 4;72(1):84-98.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2018.08.019. Epub 2018
Sep 13.

Phosphorylation of the Ribosomal Protein RPL12/uL11 Affects Translation during
Mitosis.

Imami K(1), Milek M(2), Bogdanow B(2), Yasuda T(2), Kastelic N(2), Zauber H(2),
Ishihama Y(3), Landthaler M(4), Selbach M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Str. 10, 13092
Berlin, Germany; Department of Molecular and Cellular BioAnalysis, Kyoto
University, 606-8501 Kyoto, Japan. Electronic address:
imami.koshi.3z@kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Str. 10, 13092
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Department of Molecular and Cellular BioAnalysis, Kyoto University, 606-8501
Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Str. 10, 13092
Berlin, Germany; IRI Life Sciences, Institute für Biologie, Humboldt Universität 
zu Berlin, Philippstraße 13, 10115 Berlin, Germany.
(5)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Str. 10, 13092
Berlin, Germany; Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
Electronic address: matthias.selbach@mdc-berlin.de.

Emerging evidence indicates that heterogeneity in ribosome composition can give
rise to specialized functions. Until now, research mainly focused on differences 
in core ribosomal proteins and associated factors. The effect of
posttranslational modifications has not been studied systematically. Analyzing
ribosome heterogeneity is challenging because individual proteins can be part of 
different subcomplexes (40S, 60S, 80S, and polysomes). Here we develop polysome
proteome profiling to obtain unbiased proteomic maps across ribosomal
subcomplexes. Our method combines extensive fractionation by sucrose gradient
centrifugation with quantitative mass spectrometry. The high resolution of the
profiles allows us to assign proteins to specific subcomplexes. Phosphoproteomics
on the fractions reveals that phosphorylation of serine 38 in RPL12/uL11, a known
mitotic CDK1 substrate, is strongly depleted in polysomes. Follow-up experiments 
confirm that RPL12/uL11 phosphorylation regulates the translation of specific
subsets of mRNAs during mitosis. Together, our results show that
posttranslational modification of ribosomal proteins can regulate translation.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2018.08.019 
PMID: 30220558 


5. Biomed Res Int. 2018 Jul 31;2018:1828253. doi: 10.1155/2018/1828253. eCollection 
2018.

Identification and Validation of Reference Genes for RT-qPCR Normalization in
Mythimna separata (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae).

Li K(1), Xu N(1), Yang YJ(1), Zhang JH(1), Yin H(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Life Sciences, Shanxi Normal University, Linfen 041004, China.

Mythimna separata is a major agricultural pest with seasonal migrating trait in
China. Formation and regulation mechanism of migration behavior has resulted in a
large number of fundamental researches involving quantitative studies of gene
expression in this species. Using appropriate reference gene is critical in
RT-qPCR data normalization. A comprehensive study on the reference genes in M.
separata is lacking. In this paper, expression stabilities of ten candidate
reference genes were evaluated in M. separata under various biotic and abiotic
conditions by employing four different software geNorm, NormFinder, BestKeeper,
and the comparative ΔCT method. The comprehensive stabilities ranking of these
genes were suggested by RefFinder. PKG as a target gene was employed to justify
the number of reference genes in four larval tissues and two photoperiod
treatments. Results demonstrate that the first three most stable genes were as
follows: EF, CypA, and β-TUB for developmental stages; EF, CypA, and RPL12 for
larval tissues; EF, TBP, and β-TUB for adult tissues. RPL12, β-TUB, and EF for
densities; EF, RPL12, and GAPDH for photoperiod treatments; β-TUB, EF, and ATPase
for temperature treatments. Stable reference gene combinations may reduce bias in
normalization. This work provides for the first time a comprehensive list of
appropriate reference genes and facilitates future studies on gene function of M.
separata.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/1828253 
PMCID: PMC6091413
PMID: 30151374  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Plant Physiol. 2018 Oct;178(2):626-640. doi: 10.1104/pp.18.00257. Epub 2018 Aug
9.

SMALL AUXIN UP RNA62/75 Are Required for the Translation of Transcripts Essential
for Pollen Tube Growth.

He SL(1)(2), Hsieh HL(1), Jauh GY(3)(4)(5).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Plant Biology, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529,
Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Plant and Microbial Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529,
Taiwan jauh@gate.sinica.edu.tw.
(4)Molecular and Biological Agricultural Sciences, Taiwan International Graduate 
Program, National Chung-Hsing University, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
(5)Biotechnology Center, National Chung-Hsing University, Taichung 40227, Taiwan.

Successful pollen tube elongation is critical for double fertilization, but the
biological functions of pollen tube genes and the regulatory machinery underlying
this crucial process are largely unknown. A previous translatomic study revealed 
two Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) SAUR (SMALL AUXIN UP RNA) genes, SAUR62
and SAUR75, whose expression is up-regulated by pollination. Here, we found that 
both SAUR62 and SAUR75 localized mainly to pollen tube nuclei. The siliques of
homozygous saur62 (saur62/-), saur75 (saur75/-), and the SAUR62/75 RNA
interference (RNAi) knockdown line had many aborted seeds. These lines had normal
pollen viability but defective in vitro and in vivo pollen tube growth, with
branching phenotypes. Immunoprecipitation with transgenic SAUR62/75-GFP flowers
revealed ribosomal protein RPL12 family members as potential interacting
partners, and their individual interactions were confirmed further by yeast
two-hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation assays. Polysome
profiling showed reduced 80S ribosome abundance in homozygous saur62, saur75,
ribosomal large subunit12c, and SAUR62/75 RNAi flowers, suggesting that SAUR62/75
play roles in ribosome assembly. To clarify their roles in translation, we
analyzed total proteins from RNAi versus wild-type flowers by isobaric tags for
relative and absolute quantitation, revealing significantly reduced expression of
factors participating in pollen tube wall biogenesis and F-actin dynamics, which 
are critical for the elastic properties of tube elongation. Indeed, RNAi pollen
tubes showed mislocalization of deesterified and esterified pectins and F-actin
organization. Thus, the biological roles of SAUR62/75 and their RPL12 partners
are critical in ribosomal pre-60S subunit assembly for efficient pollen tube
elongation and subsequent fertilization.

© 2018 American Society of Plant Biologists. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.18.00257 
PMCID: PMC6181030
PMID: 30093526  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. PLoS Biol. 2016 May 11;14(5):e1002462. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1002462.
eCollection 2016 May.

Ribosomal Stalk Protein Silencing Partially Corrects the ΔF508-CFTR Functional
Expression Defect.

Veit G(1), Oliver K(2)(3), Apaja PM(1), Perdomo D(1), Bidaud-Meynard A(1), Lin
ST(1), Guo J(2), Icyuz M(2), Sorscher EJ(4), Hartman JL IV(2)(3), Lukacs
GL(1)(5)(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Genetics, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham,
Alabama, United States of America.
(3)Gregory Fleming James Cystic Fibrosis Research Center, University of Alabama
at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama, United States of America.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta,
Georgia, United States of America.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, McGill University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.
(6)Groupe de Recherche Axé sur la Structure des Protéines (GRASP), McGill
University, Montréal, Quebec, Canada.

Erratum in
    PLoS Biol. 2016 Nov 2;14 (11):e1002574.

The most common cystic fibrosis (CF) causing mutation, deletion of phenylalanine 
508 (ΔF508 or Phe508del), results in functional expression defect of the CF
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) at the apical plasma membrane (PM) of 
secretory epithelia, which is attributed to the degradation of the misfolded
channel at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Deletion of phenylalanine 670 (ΔF670) 
in the yeast oligomycin resistance 1 gene (YOR1, an ABC transporter) of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae phenocopies the ΔF508-CFTR folding and trafficking
defects. Genome-wide phenotypic (phenomic) analysis of the Yor1-ΔF670 biogenesis 
identified several modifier genes of mRNA processing and translation, which
conferred oligomycin resistance to yeast. Silencing of orthologues of these
candidate genes enhanced the ΔF508-CFTR functional expression at the apical PM in
human CF bronchial epithelia. Although knockdown of RPL12, a component of the
ribosomal stalk, attenuated the translational elongation rate, it increased the
folding efficiency as well as the conformational stability of the ΔF508-CFTR,
manifesting in 3-fold augmented PM density and function of the mutant.
Combination of RPL12 knockdown with the corrector drug, VX-809 (lumacaftor)
restored the mutant function to ~50% of the wild-type channel in primary
CFTRΔF508/ΔF508 human bronchial epithelia. These results and the observation that
silencing of other ribosomal stalk proteins partially rescue the loss-of-function
phenotype of ΔF508-CFTR suggest that the ribosomal stalk modulates the folding
efficiency of the mutant and is a potential therapeutic target for correction of 
the ΔF508-CFTR folding defect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1002462 
PMCID: PMC4864299
PMID: 27168400  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: JLH is founder and holds equity in Spectrum
PhenomX LLC, which holds a license from the University of Alabama at Birmingham
to commercialize Q-HTCP technology. The authors declare no other competing
interests.


8. J Toxicol Sci. 2016 Apr;41(2):293-302. doi: 10.2131/jts.41.293.

Systematic identification of seven ribosomal protein genes in bighead carp and
their expression in response to microcystin-LR.

Cai Y(1), Zhang C, Hao L, Chen J, Xie P, Chen Z.

Author information: 
(1)School of Petrolchemical Engneering, Changzhou University, China.

Microcystin-LR (MCLR) is one of the most toxic cyanotoxins produced in algal
blooms. The toxic effects of MCLR on the expression of some organelles genes
(mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum, and cytoskeleton etc) have been widely
investigated, but little is known how it impacts on the expression of ribosomal
genes. In this study we identified seven ribosomal protein genes RPS6, RPS12,
RPS24, RPS27a, RPL12, RPL27 and RPL29 in bighead carp (Aristichthys nobilis),
whose expression was regulated by MCLR. The amino acid sequences of those 7 genes
shared more than 90% identity with corresponding sequences from zebrafish, and
were well conserved throughout evolution. The 3D structure prediction showed that
the structures of these ribosomal proteins were conserved, but had species
specificity. Q-PCR analysis revealed that expression of seven genes changed
dramatically at 3 hr, then went back to a moderate change- level at 24 hr in
almost all tested tissues (liver, kidney, intestine, heart, spleen and gill) post
MCLR injection, but in brain expression of the seven genes stayed same as the
normal level. This study will help us to know not only about the evolution and
functions of ribosomal proteins in anti-MCLR response in bighead carp, but also
about the MCLR toxicity and its impact on aquaculture and human health.

DOI: 10.2131/jts.41.293 
PMID: 26961614  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Plant Mol Biol. 2016 May;91(1-2):161-77. doi: 10.1007/s11103-016-0453-z. Epub
2016 Feb 12.

A residue substitution in the plastid ribosomal protein L12/AL1 produces
defective plastid ribosome and causes early seedling lethality in rice.

Zhao DS(1), Zhang CQ(1), Li QF(1), Yang QQ(1), Gu MH(1), Liu QQ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Physiology of Jiangsu Province/Key
Laboratory of Plant Functional Genomics of the Ministry of
Education/Co-Innovation Center for Modern Production Technology of Grain Crops,
College of Agriculture, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, People's Republic 
of China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Crop Genetics and Physiology of Jiangsu Province/Key
Laboratory of Plant Functional Genomics of the Ministry of
Education/Co-Innovation Center for Modern Production Technology of Grain Crops,
College of Agriculture, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 225009, People's Republic 
of China. qqliu@yzu.edu.cn.

The plastid ribosome is essential for chloroplast biogenesis as well as seedling 
formation. As the plastid ribosome closely resembles the prokaryotic 70S
ribosome, many plastid ribosomal proteins (PRPs) have been identified in higher
plants. However, their assembly in the chloroplast ribosome in rice remains
unclear. In the present study, we identified a novel rice mutant, albino lethal 1
(al1), from a chromosome segment substitution line population. The al1 mutant
displayed an albino phenotype at the seedling stage and did not survive past the 
three-leaf stage. No other apparent differences in plant morphology were observed
in the al1 mutant. The albino phenotype of the al1 mutant was associated with
decreased chlorophyll content and abnormal chloroplast morphology. Using fine
mapping, AL1 was shown to encode the PRPL12, a protein localized in the
chloroplasts of rice, and a spontaneous single-nucleotide mutation (C/T),
resulting in a residue substitution from leucine in AL1 to phenylalanine in al1, 
was found to be responsible for the early seedling lethality. This point mutation
is located at the L10 interface feature of the L12/AL1 protein. Yeast two-hybrid 
analysis showed that there was no physical interaction between al1 and PRPL10. In
addition, the mutation had little effect on the transcript abundance of al1, but 
had a remarkable effect on the protein abundance of al1 and transcript abundance 
of chloroplast biogenesis-related and photosynthesis-related genes. These results
provide a first glimpse into the molecular details of L12's function in rice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11103-016-0453-z 
PMID: 26873698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Oncol Rep. 2016 Apr;35(4):2089-96. doi: 10.3892/or.2016.4577. Epub 2016 Jan 19.

Benzyl isothiocyanate alters the gene expression with cell cycle regulation and
cell death in human brain glioblastoma GBM 8401 cells.

Tang NY(1), Chueh FS(2), Yu CC(3), Liao CL(1), Lin JJ(4), Hsia TC(5), Wu KC(6),
Liu HC(7), Lu KW(8), Chung JG(7).

Author information: 
(1)School of Chinese Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan,
R.O.C.
(2)Department of Health and Nutrition Biotechnology, Asia University, Taichung
413, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(3)School of Pharmacy, China Medical University, Taichung 404, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(4)Division of Cardiology, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung 404,
Taiwan, R.O.C.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung
404, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(6)Department of Anesthesiology, E-Da Hospital/I-Shou University, Kaohsiung 824, 
Taiwan, R.O.C.
(7)Department of Biological Science and Technology, China Medical University,
Taichung 404, Taiwan, R.O.C.
(8)School of Post-Baccalaureate Chinese Medicine, China Medical University,
Taichung 404, Taiwan, R.O.C.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a highly malignant devastating brain tumor in
adults. Benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC) is one of the isothiocyanates that have been
shown to induce human cancer cell apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. Herein, the
effect of BITC on cell viability and apoptotic cell death and the genetic levels 
of human brain glioblastoma GBM 8401 cells in vitro were investigated. We found
that BITC induced cell morphological changes, decreased cell viability and the
induction of cell apoptosis in GBM 8401 cells was time-dependent. cDNA microarray
was used to examine the effects of BITC on GBM 8401 cells and we found that
numerous genes associated with cell death and cell cycle regulation in GBM 8401
cells were altered after BITC treatment. The results show that expression of 317 
genes was upregulated, and two genes were associated with DNA damage, the
DNA-damage-inducible transcript 3 (DDIT3) was increased 3.66-fold and the growth 
arrest and DNA-damage-inducible α (GADD45A) was increased 2.34-fold. We also
found that expression of 182 genes was downregulated and two genes were
associated with receptor for cell responses to stimuli, the EGF containing
fibulin-like extracellular matrix protein 1 (EFEMP1) was inhibited 2.01-fold and 
the TNF receptor-associated protein 1 (TRAP1) was inhibited 2.08-fold. BITC
inhibited seven mitochondria ribosomal genes, the mitochondrial ribosomal
protein; tumor protein D52 (MRPS28) was inhibited 2.06-fold, the mitochondria
ribosomal protein S2 (MRPS2) decreased 2.07-fold, the mitochondria ribosomal
protein L23 (MRPL23) decreased 2.08-fold, the mitochondria ribosomal protein S2
(MRPS2) decreased 2.07-fold, the mitochondria ribosomal protein S12 (MRPS12)
decreased 2.08-fold, the mitochondria ribosomal protein L12 (MRPL12) decreased
2.25-fold and the mitochondria ribosomal protein S34 (MRPS34) was decreased
2.30-fold in GBM 8401 cells. These changes of gene expression can provide the
effects of BITC on the genetic level and are potential biomarkers for
glioblastoma therapy.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2016.4577 
PMID: 26781422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Front Plant Sci. 2016 Jan 6;6:1192. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01192. eCollection
2015.

Plant Ribosomal Proteins, RPL12 and RPL19, Play a Role in Nonhost Disease
Resistance against Bacterial Pathogens.

Nagaraj S(1), Senthil-Kumar M(2), Ramu VS(1), Wang K(1), Mysore KS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Plant Biology Division, The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation Inc. Ardmore, OK, 
USA.
(2)Plant Biology Division, The Samuel Roberts Noble Foundation Inc.Ardmore, OK,
USA; National Institute of Plant Genome ResearchNew Delhi, India.

Characterizing the molecular mechanism involved in nonhost disease resistance is 
important to understand the adaptations of plant-pathogen interactions. In this
study, virus-induced gene silencing (VIGS)-based forward genetics screen was
utilized to identify genes involved in nonhost resistance in Nicotiana
benthamiana. Genes encoding ribosomal proteins, RPL12 and RPL19, were identified 
in the screening. These genes when silenced in N. benthamiana caused a delay in
nonhost bacteria induced hypersensitive response (HR) with concurrent increase in
nonhost bacterial multiplication. Arabidopsis mutants of AtRPL12 and AtRPL19 also
compromised nonhost resistance. The studies on NbRPL12 and NbRPL19 double
silenced plants suggested that both RPL12 and RPL19 act in the same pathway to
confer nonhost resistance. Our work suggests a role for RPL12 and RPL19 in
nonhost disease resistance in N. benthamiana and Arabidopsis. In addition, we
show that these genes also play a minor role in basal resistance against virulent
pathogens.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.01192 
PMCID: PMC4702080
PMID: 26779226 


12. J Biol Chem. 2016 Jan 8;291(2):989-97. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.689299. Epub 2015
Nov 19.

Mitochondrial Ribosomal Protein L12 Is Required for POLRMT Stability and Exists
as Two Forms Generated by Alternative Proteolysis during Import.

Nouws J(1), Goswami AV(1), Bestwick M(2), McCann BJ(3), Surovtseva YV(1), Shadel 
GS(4).

Author information: 
(1)From the Departments of Pathology and.
(2)From the Departments of Pathology and the Department of Chemistry, Linfield
College, McMinnville, Oregon 97128, and.
(3)From the Departments of Pathology and the Department of Biology, Technische
Universität Darmstadt, 64287 Darmstadt, Germany.
(4)From the Departments of Pathology and Genetics, Yale School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8023, gerald.shadel@yale.edu.

To translate the 13 mtDNA-encoded mRNAs involved in oxidative phosphorylation
(OXPHOS), mammalian mitochondria contain a dedicated set of ribosomes comprising 
rRNAs encoded by the mitochondrial genome and mitochondrial ribosomal proteins
(MRPs) that are encoded by nuclear genes and imported into the matrix. In
addition to their role in the ribosome, several MRPs have auxiliary functions or 
have been implicated in other cellular processes like cell cycle regulation and
apoptosis. For example, we have shown that human MRPL12 binds and activates
mitochondrial RNA polymerase (POLRMT), and hence has distinct functions in the
ribosome and mtDNA transcription. Here we provide concrete evidence that there
are two mature forms of mammalian MRPL12 that are generated by a two-step
cleavage during import, involving efficient cleavage by mitochondrial processing 
protease and a second inefficient or regulated cleavage by mitochondrial
intermediate protease. We also show that knock-down of MRPL12 by RNAi results in 
instability of POLRMT, but not other primary mitochondrial transcription
components, and a corresponding decrease in mitochondrial transcription rates.
Knock-down of MRPL10, the binding partner of MRPL12 in the ribosome, results in
selective degradation of the mature long form of MRPL12, but has no effect on
POLRMT. We propose that the two forms of MRPL12 are involved in homeostatic
regulation of mitochondrial transcription and ribosome biogenesis that likely
contribute to cell cycle, growth regulation, and longevity pathways to which
MRPL12 has been linked.

© 2016 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M115.689299 
PMCID: PMC4705416
PMID: 26586915  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2015 Oct;60:151-62. doi:
10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.06.015. Epub 2015 Jun 28.

Maternal stress predicts altered biogenesis and the profile of mitochondrial
proteins in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of adult offspring rats.

Głombik K(1), Stachowicz A(2), Ślusarczyk J(1), Trojan E(1), Budziszewska B(1),
Suski M(2), Kubera M(1), Lasoń W(1), Wędzony K(3), Olszanecki R(2), Basta-Kaim
A(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Neuroendocrinology, Institute of Pharmacology,
Polish Academy of Sciences, 12 Smętna Street, 31-343 Krakow, Poland.
(2)Chair of Pharmacology, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 16
Grzegórzecka Street, 31-531 Krakow, Poland.
(3)Laboratory of Pharmacology and Brain Biostructure, Institute of Pharmacology, 
Polish Academy of Sciences, 12 Smętna Street, 31-343 Krakow, Poland.
(4)Department of Experimental Neuroendocrinology, Institute of Pharmacology,
Polish Academy of Sciences, 12 Smętna Street, 31-343 Krakow, Poland. Electronic
address: basta@if-pan.krakow.pl.

Currently, much attention is focused on the influence of mitochondrial
disturbances at the onset of depression. The goal of this study was to
investigate the impact of prenatal stress (an animal model of depression) on the 
mitochondrial biogenesis proteins and mitoproteome profile in the frontal cortex 
and hippocampus of adult 3-month-old male rats following a prenatal stress
procedure. Our results show that rats that were exposed to prenatal stress
stimuli displayed depression-like behaviors based on the sucrose preference and
elevated plus maze tests. It has been found that the level of the PGC-1α protein 
was reduced in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of the adult offspring after
the prenatal stress procedure. Moreover, in the frontal cortex, the level of the 
pro-apoptotic protein Bax was up-regulated. Two-dimensional electrophoresis
coupled with mass spectrometry showed the statistically significant
down-regulation of the mitochondrial ribosomal protein L12 (Mrpl12) and
mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] flavoprotein 2 (NDUFV2) as well as 
the up-regulation of the Tubulin Polymerization Promoting Proteins (Tppp/p25) in 
the frontal cortex. In contrast, in the hippocampus, the mitochondrial pyruvate
dehydrogenase E1 component subunit beta, the voltage-dependent anion-selective
channel protein 2 (VDAC2), and the GTP-binding nuclear protein RAN (RAN) were
down-regulated and the expression of phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein 1
(PEBP-1) was enhanced. These findings provide new evidence that stress during
pregnancy may lead not only to behavioral deficits, but also to disturbances in
the brain mitoproteome profile in adult rat offspring.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2015.06.015 
PMID: 26143539  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Reprod Sci. 2015 Dec;22(12):1484-7. doi: 10.1177/1933719115580998. Epub 2015 Apr 
12.

Potential Therapy for Neisseria Gonorrhoeae Infections With Human Chorionic
Gonadotropin.

Rao CV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Cellular Biology and Pharmacology, Molecular and Human Genetics
and Obstetrics and Gynecology, Reproduction and Development Program, Herbert
Wertheim College of Medicine, Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA
crao@fiu.edu.

The scientific evidence suggests that Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) infects human
fallopian tubes by molecular mimicry in which pathogens act like a ligand to bind
to epithelial cell surface human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG)/luteinizing
hormone (LH) receptors. The hCG-like molecule has been identified as ribosomal
protein L12 in NG coat surface. Human fallopian tube epithelial cells have been
shown to contain functional hCG/LH receptors. As previously shown in human
fallopian tube organ and cell culture studies, cellular invasion and infection
can be prevented by exposing the cells to excess hCG, which would outnumber and
outcompete NG for receptor binding. Based on these data, we suggest testing hCG
in clinical trials on infected women.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1933719115580998 
PMID: 25868582  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 25;9(11):e110454. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110454.
eCollection 2014.

Selection of reference genes for expression analysis using quantitative real-time
PCR in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon pisum (Harris) (Hemiptera, Aphidiae).

Yang C(1), Pan H(2), Liu Y(3), Zhou X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hunan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Institute of Plant Protection,
Changsha, Hunan, China; Department of Entomology, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, Kentucky, United States of America.
(2)Department of Entomology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, United 
States of America.
(3)Hunan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Institute of Plant Protection,
Changsha, Hunan, China.

To facilitate gene expression study and obtain accurate qRT-PCR analysis,
normalization relative to stable expressed housekeeping genes is required. In
this study, expression profiles of 11 candidate reference genes, including actin 
(Actin), elongation factor 1 α (EF1A), TATA-box-binding protein (TATA), ribosomal
protein L12 (RPL12), β-tubulin (Tubulin), NADH dehydrogenase (NADH),
vacuolar-type H+-ATPase (v-ATPase), succinate dehydrogenase B (SDHB), 28S
ribosomal RNA (28S), 16S ribosomal RNA (16S), and 18S ribosomal RNA (18S) from
the pea aphid Acyrthosiphon pisum, under different developmental stages and
temperature conditions, were investigated. A total of four analytical tools,
geNorm, Normfinder, BestKeeper, and the ΔCt method, were used to evaluate the
suitability of these genes as endogenous controls. According to RefFinder, a
web-based software tool which integrates all four above-mentioned algorithms to
compare and rank the reference genes, SDHB, 16S, and NADH were the three most
stable house-keeping genes under different developmental stages and temperatures.
This work is intended to establish a standardized qRT-PCR protocol in pea aphid
and serves as a starting point for the genomics and functional genomics research 
in this emerging insect model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110454 
PMCID: PMC4244036
PMID: 25423476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 8;9(8):e103900. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103900. eCollection
2014.

Selection of reference genes for gene expression studies in Siberian Apricot
(Prunus sibirica L.) Germplasm using quantitative real-time PCR.

Niu J(1), Zhu B(1), Cai J(1), Li P(2), Wang L(3), Dai H(2), Qiu L(2), Yu H(3), Ha
D(2), Zhao H(2), Zhang Z(1), Lin S(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Biological Sciences and Biotechnology, College of Nature
Conservation, National Engineering Laboratory for Tree Breeding, Key Laboratory
of Genetics and Breeding in Forest Trees and Ornamental Plants, Ministry of
Education, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing, China.
(2)Jigongshan National Nature Reserve, Xingyang, China.
(3)Research Institute of Forestry, Chinese Academy of Forestry, Beijing, China.

Quantitative real time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction has been
applied in a vast range of studies of gene expression analysis. However,
real-time PCR data must be normalized with one or more reference genes. In this
study, eleven putative consistently expressed genes (ACT, TUA, TUB, CYP, DNAj,
ELFA, F-box27, RPL12, GAPDH, UBC and UBQ) in nine Siberian Apricot Germplasms
(including much variability) were evaluated for their potential as references for
the normalization of gene expression by NormFinder and geNorm programs. From our 
studies, ACT, UBC, CYP, UBQ and RPL12 as suitable for normalization were
identified by geNorm, while UBC and CYP as the best pair by NormFinder. Moreover,
UBC was selected as the most stably expressed gene by both algorithms in
different Siberian Apricot seed samples. We also detected that a set of three
genes (ACT, CYP and UBC) by geNorm as control for normalization could lead to
accurate results. Furthermore, the expression levels of oleosin gene were
analyzed to validate the suitability of the selected reference genes. These
obtained experimental results could make an important contribution to normalize
real-time PCR data for gene expression analysis in Siberian Apricot Germplasm.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103900 
PMCID: PMC4126684
PMID: 25105495  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Bacteriol. 2014 Oct;196(19):3377-85. doi: 10.1128/JB.01584-14. Epub 2014 Jul 7.

The RimL transacetylase provides resistance to translation inhibitor microcin C.

Kazakov T(1), Kuznedelov K(1), Semenova E(1), Mukhamedyarov D(1), Datsenko KA(2),
Metlitskaya A(3), Vondenhoff GH(4), Tikhonov A(5), Agarwal V(6), Nair S(6), Van
Aerschot A(4), Severinov K(7).

Author information: 
(1)Waksman Institute, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA.
(2)Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, USA.
(3)Institute of Molecular Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Rega Institute for Medical Research, K.U.
Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.
(5)Institute of Gene Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(6)University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois, USA.
(7)Waksman Institute, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA Institute of Molecular
Genetics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia St. Petersburg State
Polytechnical University, St. Petersburg, Russia Institute of Gene Biology,
Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia Skolkovo Institute of Science and
Technology, Skolkovo, Russia severik@waksman.rutgers.edu.

Peptide-nucleotide antibiotic microcin C (McC) is produced by some Escherichia
coli strains. Inside a sensitive cell, McC is processed, releasing a
nonhydrolyzable analog of aspartyl-adenylate, which inhibits aspartyl-tRNA
synthetase. The product of mccE, a gene from the plasmid-borne McC biosynthetic
cluster, acetylates processed McC, converting it into a nontoxic compound. MccE
is homologous to chromosomally encoded acetyltransferases RimI, RimJ, and RimL,
which acetylate, correspondingly, the N termini of ribosomal proteins S18, S5,
and L12. Here, we show that E. coli RimL, but not other Rim acetyltransferases,
provides a basal level of resistance to McC and various toxic nonhydrolyzable
aminoacyl adenylates. RimL acts by acetylating processed McC, which along with
ribosomal protein L12 should be considered a natural RimL substrate. When
overproduced, RimL also makes cells resistant to albomycin, an antibiotic that
upon intracellular processing gives rise to a seryl-thioribosyl pyrimidine that
targets seryl-tRNA synthetase. We further show that E. coli YhhY, a protein
related to Rim acetyltransferases but without a known function, is also able to
detoxify several nonhydrolyzable aminoacyl adenylates but not processed McC. We
propose that RimL and YhhY protect bacteria from various toxic aminoacyl
nucleotides, either exogenous or those generated inside the cell during normal
metabolism.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01584-14 
PMCID: PMC4187662
PMID: 25002546  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 4;9(6):e99081. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099081. eCollection 
2014.

Detecting selection in the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus, using DNA sequence
data from multiple nuclear protein-coding genes.

Yednock BK(1), Neigel JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Louisiana at Lafayette, Lafayette,
Louisiana, United States of America.

The identification of genes involved in the adaptive evolution of non-model
organisms with uncharacterized genomes constitutes a major challenge. This study 
employed a rigorous and targeted candidate gene approach to test for positive
selection on protein-coding genes of the blue crab, Callinectes sapidus. Four
genes with putative roles in physiological adaptation to environmental stress
were chosen as candidates. A fifth gene not expected to play a role in
environmental adaptation was used as a control. Large samples (n>800) of DNA
sequences from C. sapidus were used in tests of selective neutrality based on
sequence polymorphisms. In combination with these, sequences from the congener C.
similis were used in neutrality tests based on interspecific divergence. In
multiple tests, significant departures from neutral expectations and indicative
of positive selection were found for the candidate gene trehalose 6-phosphate
synthase (tps). These departures could not be explained by any of the historical 
population expansion or bottleneck scenarios that were evaluated in coalescent
simulations. Evidence was also found for balancing selection at ATP-synthase
subunit 9 (atps) using a maximum likelihood version of the Hudson, Kreitmen, and 
Aguadé test, and positive selection favoring amino acid replacements within
ATP/ADP translocase (ant) was detected using the McDonald-Kreitman test. In
contrast, test statistics for the control gene, ribosomal protein L12 (rpl),
which presumably has experienced the same demographic effects as the candidate
loci, were not significantly different from neutral expectations and could
readily be explained by demographic effects. Together, these findings demonstrate
the utility of the candidate gene approach for investigating adaptation at the
molecular level in a marine invertebrate for which extensive genomic resources
are not available.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099081 
PMCID: PMC4045945
PMID: 24896825  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2013 Aug;1832(8):1304-12. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.04.014. Epub 2013 Apr 18.

Mutations in mitochondrial ribosomal protein MRPL12 leads to growth retardation, 
neurological deterioration and mitochondrial translation deficiency.

Serre V(1), Rozanska A, Beinat M, Chretien D, Boddaert N, Munnich A, Rötig A,
Chrzanowska-Lightowlers ZM.

Author information: 
(1)Université Paris Descartes-Sorbonne Paris Cité, Institut Imagine and INSERM
U781, Hôpital Necker-Enfants Malades, 149 rue de Sèvres, 75015 Paris, France.
serre@ijm.univ-paris-diderot.fr

Multiple respiratory chain deficiencies represent a common cause of mitochondrial
diseases and are associated with a wide range of clinical symptoms. We report a
subject, born to consanguineous parents, with growth retardation and neurological
deterioration. Multiple respiratory chain deficiency was found in muscle and
fibroblasts of the subject as well as abnormal assembly of complexes I and IV. A 
microsatellite genotyping of the family members detected only one region of
homozygosity on chromosome 17q24.2-q25.3 in which we focused our attention to
genes involved in mitochondrial translation. We sequenced MRPL12, encoding the
mitochondrial ribosomal protein L12 and identified a c.542C>T transition in exon 
5 changing a highly conserved alanine into a valine (p.Ala181Val). This mutation 
resulted in a decreased steady-state level of MRPL12 protein, with altered
integration into the large ribosomal subunit. Moreover, an overall mitochondrial 
translation defect was observed in the subject's fibroblasts with a significant
reduction of synthesis of COXI, COXII and COXIII subunits. Modeling of MRPL12
shows Ala181 positioned in a helix potentially involved in an interface of
interaction suggesting that the p.Ala181Val change might be predicted to alter
interactions with the elongation factors. These results contrast with the
eubacterial orthologues of human MRPL12, where L7/L12 proteins do not appear to
have a selective effect on translation. Therefore, analysis of the mutated
version found in the subject presented here suggests that the mammalian protein
does not function in an entirely analogous manner to the eubacterial L7/L12
equivalent.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.04.014 
PMCID: PMC3787750
PMID: 23603806  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. PLoS Genet. 2012;8(10):e1003006. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003006. Epub 2012 Oct
11.

New partners in regulation of gene expression: the enhancer of Trithorax and
Polycomb Corto interacts with methylated ribosomal protein l12 via its
chromodomain.

Coléno-Costes A(1), Jang SM, de Vanssay A, Rougeot J, Bouceba T, Randsholt NB,
Gibert JM, Le Crom S, Mouchel-Vielh E, Bloyer S, Peronnet F.

Author information: 
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, UMR7622, Laboratoire de Biologie du 
Développement, Equipe Chromatine et Développement, Paris, France.

Chromodomains are found in many regulators of chromatin structure, and most of
them recognize methylated lysines on histones. Here, we investigate the role of
the Drosophila melanogaster protein Corto's chromodomain. The Enhancer of
Trithorax and Polycomb Corto is involved in both silencing and activation of gene
expression. Over-expression of the Corto chromodomain (CortoCD) in transgenic
flies shows that it is a chromatin-targeting module, critical for Corto function.
Unexpectedly, mass spectrometry analysis reveals that polypeptides pulled down by
CortoCD from nuclear extracts correspond to ribosomal proteins. Furthermore,
real-time interaction analyses demonstrate that CortoCD binds with high affinity 
RPL12 tri-methylated on lysine 3. Corto and RPL12 co-localize with active
epigenetic marks on polytene chromosomes, suggesting that both are involved in
fine-tuning transcription of genes in open chromatin. RNA-seq based
transcriptomes of wing imaginal discs over-expressing either CortoCD or RPL12
reveal that both factors deregulate large sets of common genes, which are
enriched in heat-response and ribosomal protein genes, suggesting that they could
be implicated in dynamic coordination of ribosome biogenesis. Chromatin
immunoprecipitation experiments show that Corto and RPL12 bind hsp70 and are
similarly recruited on gene body after heat shock. Hence, Corto and RPL12 could
be involved together in regulation of gene transcription. We discuss whether
pseudo-ribosomal complexes composed of various ribosomal proteins might
participate in regulation of gene expression in connection with chromatin
regulators.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003006 
PMCID: PMC3469418
PMID: 23071455  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.


21. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012 Oct 23;109(43):17412-7. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1110271109. Epub 2012 Oct 8.

Identification of antituberculosis agents that target ribosomal protein
interactions using a yeast two-hybrid system.

Lin Y(1), Li Y, Zhu Y, Zhang J, Li Y, Liu X, Jiang W, Yu S, You XF, Xiao C, Hong 
B, Wang Y, Jiang JD, Si S.

Author information: 
(1)Key Laboratory of Biotechnology of Antibiotics of Ministry of Health,
Institute of Medicinal Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100050, China.

Mycobacterium tuberculosis kills about 2 million people annually and antibiotic
resistance is a cause of increased mortality. Therefore, development of new
antituberculosis drugs is urgent for the control of widespread tuberculosis
infections. For this purpose, we performed an innovative screen to identify new
agents that disrupt the function of ribosomes in M. tuberculosis. Two bacterial
ribosomal proteins L12 and L10 interact with each other and constitute the stalk 
of the 50S ribosomal subunit, which recruits initiation and elongation factors
(EFs) during translation. Therefore, the L12-L10 interaction should be essential 
for ribosomal function and protein synthesis. We established a yeast two-hybrid
system to identify small molecules that block the interaction between L12 and L10
proteins from M. tuberculosis. Using this system, we identified two compounds
T766 and T054 that show strong bactericidal activity against tuberculosis but
with low toxicity to mice and other bacterial strains. Moreover, using surface
plasmon resonance (SPR) assay, we have demonstrated that these compounds bind
specifically to L12 to disrupt L12-L10 interaction. Overproduction of L12
protein, but not L10, lowers the antibacterial activity of T766 and T054,
indicating that the ribosome is likely the cellular target. Therefore, our data
demonstrate that this yeast two-hybrid system is a useful tool to identify unique
antituberculosis agents targeting the ribosomal protein L12-L10 interaction.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1110271109 
PMCID: PMC3491523
PMID: 23045703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nucleic Acids Res. 2012 Nov;40(21):10851-65. doi: 10.1093/nar/gks833. Epub 2012
Sep 10.

Common chaperone activity in the G-domain of trGTPase protects L11-L12
interaction on the ribosome.

Zhang D(1), Liu G, Xue J, Lou J, Nierhaus KH, Gong W, Qin Y.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Noncoding RNA, Institute of Biophysics, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, 15 Datun Road, Beijing 100101, China.

Translational GTPases (trGTPases) regulate all phases of protein synthesis. An
early event in the interaction of a trGTPase with the ribosome is the contact of 
the G-domain with the C-terminal domain (CTD) of ribosomal protein L12 (L12-CTD) 
and subsequently interacts with the N-terminal domain of L11 (L11-NTD). However, 
the structural and functional relationships between L12-CTD and L11-NTD remain
unclear. Here, we performed mutagenesis, biochemical and structural studies to
identify the interactions between L11-NTD and L12-CTD. Mutagenesis of conserved
residues in the interaction site revealed their role in the docking of trGTPases.
During docking, loop62 of L11-NTD protrudes into a cleft in L12-CTD, leading to
an open conformation of this domain and exposure of hydrophobic core. This
unfavorable situation for L12-CTD stability is resolved by a chaperone-like
activity of the contacting G-domain. Our results suggest that all
trGTPases-regardless of their different specific functions-use a common mechanism
for stabilizing the L11-NTD•L12-CTD interactions.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gks833 
PMCID: PMC3505967
PMID: 22965132  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. World J Gastroenterol. 2012 Mar 21;18(11):1216-28. doi: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i11.1216.

Proteomic analysis of gastric cancer and immunoblot validation of potential
biomarkers.

Kočevar N(1), Odreman F, Vindigni A, Grazio SF, Komel R.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Centre for Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Ljubljana, Ljubljana 1000, Slovenia.

AIM: To search for and validate differentially expressed proteins in patients
with gastric adenocarcinoma.
METHODS: We used two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and mass spectrometry to
search for differentially expressed proteins in patients with gastric
adenocarcinoma. A set of proteins was validated with immunoblotting.
RESULTS: We identified 30 different proteins involved in various biological
processes: metabolism, development, death, response to stress, cell cycle, cell
communication, transport, and cell motility. Eight proteins were chosen for
further validation by immunoblotting. Our results show that gastrokine-1, 39S
ribosomal protein L12 (mitochondrial precursor), plasma cell-induced resident
endoplasmic reticulum protein, and glutathione S-transferase mu 3 were
significantly underexpressed in gastric adenocarcinoma relative to adjacent
non-tumor tissue samples. On the other hand, septin-2, ubiquitin-conjugating
enzyme E2 N, and transaldolase were significantly overexpressed. Translationally 
controlled tumor protein was shown to be differentially expressed only in
patients with cancer of the gastric cardia/esophageal border.
CONCLUSION: This work presents a set of possible diagnostic biomarkers, validated
for the first time. It might contribute to the efforts of understanding gastric
cancer carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v18.i11.1216 
PMCID: PMC3309911
PMID: 22468085  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2011 Nov 1;108(44):17921-6. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1108852108. Epub 2011 Oct 14.

Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L12 selectively associates with human
mitochondrial RNA polymerase to activate transcription.

Surovtseva YV(1), Shutt TE, Cotney J, Cimen H, Chen SY, Koc EC, Shadel GS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06520, USA.

Basal transcription of human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in vitro requires the
single-subunit, bacteriophage-related RNA polymerase, POLRMT, and transcription
factor h-mtTFB2. This two-component system is activated differentially at mtDNA
promoters by human mitochondrial transcription factor A (h-mtTFA). Mitochondrial 
ribosomal protein L7/L12 (MRPL12) binds directly to POLRMT, but whether it does
so in the context of the ribosome or as a "free" protein in the matrix is
unknown. Furthermore, existing evidence that MRPL12 activates mitochondrial
transcription derives from overexpression studies in cultured cells and
transcription experiments using crude mitochondrial lysates, precluding direct
effects of MRPL12 on transcription to be assigned. Here, we report that depletion
of MRPL12 from HeLa cells by shRNA results in decreased steady-state levels of
mitochondrial transcripts, which are not accounted for by changes in RNA
stability. We also show that a significant "free" pool of MRPL12 exists in human 
mitochondria not associated with ribosomes. "Free" MRPL12 binds selectively to
POLRMT in vivo in a complex distinct from those containing h-mtTFB2. Finally,
using a fully recombinant mitochondrial transcription system, we demonstrate that
MRPL12 stimulates promoter-dependent and promoter-independent transcription
directly in vitro. Based on these results, we propose that, when not associated
with ribosomes, MRPL12 has a second function in transcription, perhaps acting to 
facilitate the transition from initiation to elongation. We speculate that this
is one mechanism to coordinate mitochondrial ribosome biogenesis and
transcription in human mitochondria, where transcription of rRNAs from the mtDNA 
presumably needs to be adjusted in accordance with the rate of import and
assembly of the nucleus-encoded MRPs into ribosomes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1108852108 
PMCID: PMC3207702
PMID: 22003127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Yeast. 2011 Jun;28(6):481-93. doi: 10.1002/yea.1852. Epub 2011 Apr 6.

Rpl12p affects the transcription of the PHO pathway high-affinity inorganic
phosphate transporters and repressible phosphatases.

Tu WY(1), Huang YC, Liu LF, Chang LH, Tam MF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taiwan, Republic of China.

The ribosomal protein Rpl12p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is encoded by duplicated
genes, RPL12A and RPL12B. The gene products possess an identical amino acid
sequence. Yeast strain 6EA1, which lacks both genes, is viable but exhibits a
very slow-growth phenotype. In this study, 6EA1 cells were transformed with
plasmids carrying either RPL12A or RPL12B, and the transcriptional profiles of
wild-type W303, 6EA1 and the transformed cells grown in synthetic complete medium
were examined by microarray analysis. Transcription of PHO84, a gene encoding a
high-affinity phosphate transporter, was drastically suppressed in 6EA1. PHO84
expression is induced under phosphate-limiting conditions. Therefore, cells were 
grown in low-phosphate medium and transcripts encoding the PHO pathway proteins
were quantified by qRT-PCR. The high-affinity phosphate transporters and
repressible phosphatases were suppressed, while PHO4, a PHO pathway transcription
activator, was upregulated in 6EA1. Accordingly, phosphate transport and acidic
phosphatase activities were significantly decreased in 6EA1. Addition of RPL12A
or RPL12B to 6EA1 largely lessens these effects. We postulate that RPL12 has an
extra-ribosomal function in modulating the transcription of genes that need Pho4p
activation.

Copyright © 2011 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/yea.1852 
PMID: 21469193  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. 2011 May;300(5):G815-22. doi:
10.1152/ajpgi.00108.2010. Epub 2011 Feb 24.

Chronic ethanol feeding causes depression of mitochondrial elongation factor Tu
in the rat liver: implications for the mitochondrial ribosome.

Weiser B(1), Gonye G, Sykora P, Crumm S, Cahill A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Pathology, Anatomy and Cell Biology, Thomas Jefferson Univ.,
Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Chronic ethanol feeding is known to negatively impact hepatic energy metabolism. 
Previous studies have indicated that the underlying lesion responsible for this
may lie at the level of the mitoribosome. The aim of this study was to
characterize the structure of the hepatic mitoribosome in alcoholic male rats and
their isocalorically paired controls. Our experiments revealed that chronic
ethanol feeding resulted in a significant depletion of both structural
(death-associated protein 3) and functional [elongation factor thermo unstable
(EF-Tu)] mitoribosomal proteins. In addition, significant increases were found in
nucleotide elongation factor thermo stable (EF-Ts) and structural mitochondrial
ribosomal protein L12 (MRPL12). The increase in MRPL12 was found to correlate
with an increase in the levels of the 39S large mitoribosomal subunit. These
changes were accompanied by decreased levels of nuclear- and mitochondrially
encoded respiratory subunits, decreased amounts of intact respiratory complexes, 
decreased hepatic ATP levels, and depressed mitochondrial translation.
Mathematical modeling of ethanol-mediated changes in EF-Tu and EF-Ts using
prederived kinetic data predicted that the ethanol-mediated decrease in EF-Tu
levels could completely account for the impaired mitochondrial protein synthesis.
In conclusion, chronic ethanol feeding results in a depletion of mitochondrial
EF-Tu levels within the liver that is mathematically predicted to be responsible 
for the impaired mitochondrial protein synthesis seen in alcoholic animals.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpgi.00108.2010 
PMCID: PMC3094132
PMID: 21350184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. PLoS One. 2010 Jul 14;5(7):e11575. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011575.

Measurement of the rates of synthesis of three components of ribosomes of
Mycobacterium fortuitum: a theoretical approach to qRT-PCR experimentation.

Garcia MJ(1), Nuñez MC, Cox RA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad
Autónoma, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Except for the ribosomal protein L12 (rplL), ribosomal proteins are
present as one copy per ribosome; L12 (rplL) is unusual because it is present as 
four copies per ribosome. Thus, the strategies used by Mycobacterium fortuitum to
regulate ribosomal protein synthesis were investigated, including evaluations of 
the rates of chain elongations of 16S rRNA, rplL and ribosomal protein S12
(rpsL).
METHODOLOGY: RNA was isolated from cell cultures and cDNA was prepared. The
numbers of cDNA copies of 16S rRNA, precursor-16S rRNA and transcripts of rpsL
and rplL were quantified by qRT-PCR and then related to the rates of 16S rRNA,
rpsL and rplL chain elongations by means of a mathematical framework for coupled 
transcription/translation.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The rates of synthesis of 16S rRNA, rpsL and rplL
respectively were found to be approximately 50 x 10(3) nucleotides h(-1), 1.6 x
10(3) amino acid residues h(-1) and 3.4 x 10(3) amino acid residues h(-1). The
number of transcripts of rplL was approximately twice that of rpsL. These data
account for the presence of one copy of rpsL and four copies of rplL per
ribosome, and reveal that the rate of M. fortuitum ribosome synthesis was closer 
to that of M. tuberculosis than to E. coli. Except for rplJ, the elongation rate 
obtained for rpsL was inferred to be appropriate for all other proteins present
as one copy per ribosome.
SIGNIFICANCE: The results obtained provide the basis for a comprehensive view of 
the kinetics of ribosome synthesis, and of the ways that bacterial cells utilize 
genes encoding ribosomal proteins. The methodology also applies to proteins
involved in transcription, energy generation and to bacterial proteins in
general. The method proposed for measuring the fidelity of cDNA preparations is
intrinsically much more sensitive than procedures that measure the integrity of
16S rRNA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0011575 
PMCID: PMC2904383
PMID: 20644643  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Biophys J. 2010 May 19;98(10):2374-82. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2010.02.012.

Structure and Dynamics of Ribosomal Protein L12: An Ensemble Model Based on SAXS 
and NMR Relaxation.

Bernadó P(1), Modig K, Grela P, Svergun DI, Tchorzewski M, Pons M, Akke M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Biomedicine, Barcelona, Spain.
pau.bernado@irbbarcelona.org

Ribosomal protein L12 is a two-domain protein that forms dimers mediated by its
N-terminal domains. A 20-residue linker separates the N- and C-terminal domains. 
This linker results in a three-lobe topology with significant flexibility, known 
to be critical for efficient translation. Here we present an ensemble model of
spatial distributions and correlation times for the domain reorientations of L12 
that reconciles experimental data from small-angle x-ray scattering and nuclear
magnetic resonance. We generated an ensemble of L12 conformations in which the
structure of each domain is fixed but the domain orientations are variable. The
ensemble reproduces the small-angle x-ray scattering data and the optimized
correlation times of its reorientational eigenmodes fit the (15)N relaxation
data. The ensemble model reveals intrinsic conformational properties of L12 that 
help explain its function on the ribosome. The two C-terminal domains sample a
large volume and extend further away from the ribosome anchor than expected for a
random-chain linker, indicating that the flexible linker has residual order.
Furthermore, the distances between each C-terminal domain and the anchor are
anticorrelated, indicating that one of them is more retracted on average. We
speculate that these properties promote the function of L12 to recruit
translation factors and control their activity on the ribosome.

Copyright 2010 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2010.02.012 
PMCID: PMC2872255
PMID: 20483347  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Am J Hum Genet. 2010 Feb 12;86(2):222-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2009.12.015. Epub
2010 Jan 28.

Ribosomal protein genes RPS10 and RPS26 are commonly mutated in Diamond-Blackfan 
anemia.

Doherty L(1), Sheen MR, Vlachos A, Choesmel V, O'Donohue MF, Clinton C, Schneider
HE, Sieff CA, Newburger PE, Ball SE, Niewiadomska E, Matysiak M, Glader B, Arceci
RJ, Farrar JE, Atsidaftos E, Lipton JM, Gleizes PE, Gazda HT.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Genetics and Program in Genomics, The Manton Center for Orphan
Disease Research, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Erratum in
    Am J Hum Genet. 2010 Apr 9;86(4):655.

Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), an inherited bone marrow failure syndrome
characterized by anemia that usually presents before the first birthday or in
early childhood, is associated with birth defects and an increased risk of
cancer. Although anemia is the most prominent feature of DBA, the disease is also
characterized by growth retardation and congenital malformations, in particular
craniofacial, upper limb, heart, and urinary system defects that are present in
approximately 30%-50% of patients. DBA has been associated with mutations in
seven ribosomal protein (RP) genes, RPS19, RPS24, RPS17, RPL35A, RPL5, RPL11, and
RPS7, in about 43% of patients. To continue our large-scale screen of RP genes in
a DBA population, we sequenced 35 ribosomal protein genes, RPL15, RPL24, RPL29,
RPL32, RPL34, RPL9, RPL37, RPS14, RPS23, RPL10A, RPS10, RPS12, RPS18, RPL30,
RPS20, RPL12, RPL7A, RPS6, RPL27A, RPLP2, RPS25, RPS3, RPL41, RPL6, RPLP0, RPS26,
RPL21, RPL36AL, RPS29, RPL4, RPLP1, RPL13, RPS15A, RPS2, and RPL38, in our DBA
patient cohort of 117 probands. We identified three distinct mutations of RPS10
in five probands and nine distinct mutations of RPS26 in 12 probands. Pre-rRNA
analysis in lymphoblastoid cells from patients bearing mutations in RPS10 and
RPS26 showed elevated levels of 18S-E pre-rRNA. This accumulation is consistent
with the phenotype observed in HeLa cells after knockdown of RPS10 or RPS26
expression with siRNAs, which indicates that mutations in the RPS10 and RPS26
genes in DBA patients affect the function of the proteins in rRNA processing.

Copyright (c) 2010 The American Society of Human Genetics. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2009.12.015 
PMCID: PMC2820177
PMID: 20116044  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mol Phylogenet Evol. 2010 Mar;54(3):922-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.11.015.
Epub 2009 Nov 24.

Silene patula (Siphonomorpha, Caryophyllaceae) in North Africa: a test of
colonisation routes using chloroplast markers.

Naciri Y(1), Cavat F, Jeanmonod D.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Phylogénie et de Génétique Moléculaires, Conservatoire et Jardin
Botaniques, Chemin de l'Impératrice, 1, Case Postale 60, 1292 Chambésy, Geneva,
Switzerland. yamama.naciri@ville-ge.ch

Based on morphological characters, the North African Silene patula has been
divided into two subspecies, ssp. patula found North of Kabylies and Atlas
Mountains, and ssp. amurensis found south of these regions. In order to test the 
hypothesis that S. patula could have derived from S. italica through the Sicilian
Channel during the Messinian, we sequenced three chloroplast loci, trnH-psbA,
trnS-trnG and rpl12-rps20. Fifteen haplotypes were found on 211 herbarium
specimens, associated with a huge differentiation within species. The hypothesis 
that S. patula had independently evolved as two different subspecies North and
South of the mountains is refuted and a morphological adaptation to different
pollinators is suggested to explain the differences between the two taxa. The
Kabylies-Numidie-Kroumirie gathers a large proportion of haplotypes, which points
to this region as a probable refugium or place of origin from which spatial
expansions have subsequently occurred towards Morocco and the Aurès Mountains.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ympev.2009.11.015 
PMID: 19941964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. J Cell Biol. 2009 Sep 21;186(6):849-62. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200904110.

Ribosome stalk assembly requires the dual-specificity phosphatase Yvh1 for the
exchange of Mrt4 with P0.

Lo KY(1), Li Z, Wang F, Marcotte EM, Johnson AW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Section of Molecular Genetics and
Microbiology, The Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA.

The ribosome stalk is essential for recruitment of translation factors. In yeast,
P0 and Rpl12 correspond to bacterial L10 and L11 and form the stalk base of
mature ribosomes, whereas Mrt4 is a nuclear paralogue of P0. In this study, we
show that the dual-specificity phosphatase Yvh1 is required for the release of
Mrt4 from the pre-60S subunits. Deletion of YVH1 leads to the persistence of Mrt4
on pre-60S subunits in the cytoplasm. A mutation in Mrt4 at the protein-RNA
interface bypasses the requirement for Yvh1. Pre-60S subunits associated with
Yvh1 contain Rpl12 but lack both Mrt4 and P0. These results suggest a linear
series of events in which Yvh1 binds to the pre-60S subunit to displace Mrt4.
Subsequently, P0 loads onto the subunit to assemble the mature stalk, and Yvh1 is
released. The initial assembly of the ribosome with Mrt4 may provide functional
compartmentalization of ribosome assembly in addition to the spatial separation
afforded by the nuclear envelope.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200904110 
PMCID: PMC2753163
PMID: 19797078  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. PLoS One. 2009 Sep 15;4(9):e7033. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007033.

Oxygen consumption can regulate the growth of tumors, a new perspective on the
Warburg effect.

Chen Y(1), Cairns R, Papandreou I, Koong A, Denko NC.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Radiation and Cancer Biology, Department of Radiation Oncology,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: The unique metabolism of tumors was described many years ago by Otto 
Warburg, who identified tumor cells with increased glycolysis and decreased
mitochondrial activity. However, "aerobic glycolysis" generates fewer ATP per
glucose molecule than mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, so in terms of
energy production, it is unclear how increasing a less efficient process provides
tumors with a growth advantage.
METHODS/FINDINGS: We carried out a screen for loss of genetic elements in
pancreatic tumor cells that accelerated their growth as tumors, and identified
mitochondrial ribosomal protein L28 (MRPL28). Knockdown of MRPL28 in these cells 
decreased mitochondrial activity, and increased glycolysis, but paradoxically,
decreased cellular growth in vitro. Following Warburg's observations, this
mutation causes decreased mitochondrial function, compensatory increase in
glycolysis and accelerated growth in vivo. Likewise, knockdown of either
mitochondrial ribosomal protein L12 (MRPL12) or cytochrome oxidase had a similar 
effect. Conversely, expression of the mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1)
increased oxygen consumption and decreased tumor growth. Finally, treatment of
tumor bearing animals with dichloroacetate (DCA) increased pyruvate consumption
in the mitochondria, increased total oxygen consumption, increased tumor hypoxia 
and slowed tumor growth.
CONCLUSIONS: We interpret these findings to show that non-oncogenic genetic
changes that alter mitochondrial metabolism can regulate tumor growth through
modulation of the consumption of oxygen, which appears to be a rate limiting
substrate for tumor proliferation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007033 
PMCID: PMC2737639
PMID: 19753307  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Proteomics. 2009 May;9(10):2809-19. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200800192.

Identification of elicitor-responsive proteins in rice leaves by a proteomic
approach.

Liao M(1), Li Y, Wang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Physiological Plant Pathology, South China Agricultural
University, Guangzhou, P. R. China.

Experiments were conducted to identify the differentially expressed proteins in
rice (Oryza sativa L.) plants after treatment with the glycoprotein elicitor CSB 
I, purified from ZC(13), a race of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea. The 
interactions of two near isogenic lines of rice, C101A51 and CO39, with ZC(13)
resulted in completely incompatible and compatible types, respectively. Proteins 
were extracted from rice leaves at 12 and 24 h after treatment with CSB I.
Temporal changes in total proteins were examined using 2-DE. Among more than 900 
protein spots reproducibly detected on each gel, 11 were up-regulated, three were
down-regulated and seven were newly induced during, at a minimum, one time point.
Twenty-one differentially expressed proteins were identified by linear ion trap
quadrupole (LTQ)-MS/MS. The identified proteins were classified into six
categories based on their putative function reported: (i) defense proteins
(PR-10a, PR-5 and putative salt-induced protein), (ii) signal transduction
(nucleoside diphosphate kinase and putative profilin), (iii) ROS (Mn-SOD,
Cu/Zn-SOD, GST and CAT), (iv) programmed cell death (translationally controlled
tumor protein), (v) molecule biosynthesis (putative ribosomal protein S5,
putative ribosomal protein L12, putative translational elongation factor Tu and
putative chaperonin 21 precursor) and (vi) metabolism (putative
fructose-bisphosphate aldolase class-I, putative malate dehydrogenase,
cytoplasmic malate dehydrogenase, putative acid phosphatase, putative
transketolase1 and gamma hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase-like protein). All of
these proteins (except Cu/Zn-SOD, putative acid phosphatase and translationally
controlled tumor protein) were induced faster and to a higher degree in C101A51
than in CO39. These data suggest that the incompatible rice line may possess a
more sensitive recognition system that can identify and react to specific
chemical, biological or physical triggers in a more efficient manner, thus
eliciting an early and fast defense response.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200800192 
PMID: 19405028  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Nucleic Acids Res. 2009 Feb;37(2):e15. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn992. Epub 2008 Dec 11.

A single-step method for purification of active His-tagged ribosomes from a
genetically engineered Escherichia coli.

Ederth J(1), Mandava CS, Dasgupta S, Sanyal S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, S-751 24
Uppsala, Sweden.

With the rapid development of the ribosome field in recent years a quick, simple 
and high-throughput method for purification of the bacterial ribosome is in
demand. We have designed a new strain of Escherichia coli (JE28) by an in-frame
fusion of a nucleotide sequence encoding a hexa-histidine affinity tag at the
3'-end of the single copy rplL gene (encoding the ribosomal protein L12) at the
chromosomal site of the wild-type strain MG1655. As a result, JE28 produces a
homogeneous population of ribosomes (His)(6)-tagged at the C-termini of all four 
L12 proteins. Furthermore, we have developed a single-step, high-throughput
method for purification of tetra-(His)(6)-tagged 70S ribosomes from this strain
using affinity chromatography. These ribosomes, when compared with the
conventionally purified ones in sucrose gradient centrifugation, 2D-gel,
dipeptide formation and a full-length protein synthesis assay showed higher yield
and activity. We further describe how this method can be adapted for purification
of ribosomal subunits and mutant ribosomes. These methodologies could, in
principle, also be used to purify any functional multimeric complex from the
bacterial cell.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn992 
PMCID: PMC2632923
PMID: 19074194  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Eukaryot Cell. 2008 May;7(5):836-47. doi: 10.1128/EC.00070-08. Epub 2008 Apr 4.

Genomewide location analysis of Candida albicans Upc2p, a regulator of sterol
metabolism and azole drug resistance.

Znaidi S(1), Weber S, Al-Abdin OZ, Bomme P, Saidane S, Drouin S, Lemieux S, De
Deken X, Robert F, Raymond M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Research in Immunology and Cancer, Université de Montréal,
Montreal, Québec, Canada.

Upc2p, a transcription factor of the zinc cluster family, is an important
regulator of sterol biosynthesis and azole drug resistance in Candida albicans.
To better understand Upc2p function in C. albicans, we used genomewide location
profiling to identify the transcriptional targets of Upc2p in vivo. A triple
hemagglutinin epitope, introduced at the C terminus of Upc2p, conferred a
gain-of-function effect on the fusion protein. Location profiling identified 202 
bound promoters (P < 0.05). Overrepresented functional groups of genes whose
promoters were bound by Upc2p included 12 genes involved in ergosterol
biosynthesis (NCP1, ERG11, ERG2, and others), 18 genes encoding ribosomal
subunits (RPS30, RPL32, RPL12, and others), 3 genes encoding drug transporters
(CDR1, MDR1, and YOR1), 4 genes encoding transcription factors (INO2, ACE2, SUT1,
and UPC2), and 6 genes involved in sulfur amino acid metabolism (MET6, SAM2,
SAH1, and others). Bioinformatic analyses suggested that Upc2p binds to the DNA
motif 5'-VNCGBDTR that includes the previously characterized Upc2p binding site
5'-TCGTATA. Northern blot analysis showed that increased binding correlates with 
increased expression for the analyzed Upc2p targets (ERG11, MDR1, CDR1, YOR1,
SUT1, SMF12, and CBP1). The analysis of ERG11, MDR1, and CDR1 transcripts in
wild-type and upc2Delta/upc2Delta strains grown under Upc2p-activating conditions
(lovastatin treatment and hypoxia) showed that Upc2p regulates its targets in a
complex manner, acting as an activator or as a repressor depending upon the
target and the activating condition. Taken together, our results indicate that
Upc2p is a key regulator of ergosterol metabolism. They also suggest that Upc2p
may contribute to azole resistance by regulating the expression of drug efflux
pump-encoding genes in addition to ergosterol biosynthesis genes.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00070-08 
PMCID: PMC2394978
PMID: 18390649  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. FEMS Yeast Res. 2008 May;8(3):351-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1567-1364.2007.00343.x. Epub
2008 Jan 30.

A yeast-based genetic screening to identify human proteins that increase
homologous recombination.

Collavoli A(1), Comelli L, Rainaldi G, Galli A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorio di Terapia Genica e Molecolare, Istituto di Fisiologia Clinica
CNR, Area della Ricerca CNR Pisa, Italy.

To identify new human proteins implicated in homologous recombination (HR), we
set up 'a papillae assay' to screen a human cDNA library using the RS112 strain
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae containing an intrachromosomal recombination
substrate. We isolated 23 cDNAs, 11 coding for complete proteins and 12 for
partially deleted proteins that increased HR when overexpressed in yeast. We
characterized the effect induced by the overexpression of the complete human
proteasome subunit beta 2, the partially deleted proteasome subunits alpha 3 and 
beta 8, the ribosomal protein L12, the brain abundant membrane signal protein
(BASP1) and the human homologue to v-Ha-RAS (HRAS), which elevated HR by
2-6.5-fold over the control. We found that deletion of the RAD52 gene, which has 
a key role in most HR events, abolished the increase of HR induced by the
proteasome subunits and HRAS; by contrast, the RAD52 deletion did not affect the 
high level of HR due to BASP1 and RPL12. This suggests that the proteins
stimulated yeast HR via different mechanisms. Overexpression of the complete beta
2 human proteasome subunit or the partially deleted alpha 3 and beta 8 subunits
increased methyl methanesulphonate (MMS) resistance much more in the rad52 Delta 
mutant than in the wild-type. Overexpression of RPL12 and BASP1 did not affect
MMS resistance in both the wild-type and the rad52 Delta mutant, whereas HRAS
decreased MMS resistance in the rad52 Delta mutant. The results indicate that
these proteins may interfere with the pathway(s) involved in the repair of
MMS-induced DNA damage. Finally, we provide further evidence that yeast is a
helpful tool to identify human proteins that may have a regulatory role in HR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1567-1364.2007.00343.x 
PMID: 18248415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Biol Chem. 2008 Mar 14;283(11):7185-95. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M709429200. Epub 2008 
Jan 14.

A conserved SET domain methyltransferase, Set11, modifies ribosomal protein Rpl12
in fission yeast.

Sadaie M(1), Shinmyozu K, Nakayama J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Chromatin Dynamics, RIKEN, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0047, Japan.

SET domain-containing methyltransferases post-translationally modify a variety of
cellular proteins, such as histones, cytochrome c, ribulose-bisphosphate
carboxylase/oxygenase, and ribosomal proteins. In the fission yeast
Schizosaccharomyces pombe, at least 13 SET domain-containing proteins have been
identified in the genome, four of which are involved in transcriptional
regulation through their modification of histone tails. However, the roles played
by the other SET domain proteins in cellular processes and their physiological
substrates remain unresolved. We show here that S. pombe Set11, a SET
domain-containing protein encoded by SPCC1223.04c, specifically modifies Rpl12
(ribosomal protein L12). Recombinant Set11 prepared from Escherichia coli had
catalytic activity and methylated a 17-kDa polypeptide in cellular extracts of
set11 mutant cells. The methylated protein was isolated by two-dimensional gel
electrophoresis or by reverse-phase chromatography and was identified as Rpl12 by
mass spectrometry. In vitro methylation experiments using wild-type and mutant
Rpl12 proteins verified that Set11 modified recombinant Rpl12 and suggested that 
its potential target site was lysine 3. The methylation site modified by Set11
was also confirmed by mass spectrometric analysis, which also revealed other
unique methylation sites of Rpl12. Finally, we found that Set11 predominantly
localized to the nucleolus and that the overproduction of Set11 caused a severe
growth defect. These results suggest that Rpl12 methylation occurs during the
ribosomal assembly processes and that control of the Set11 expression level is
important for its cellular function.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M709429200 
PMID: 18195021  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Front Biosci. 2008 Jan 1;13:2203-15.

Involvement of Dcr1 in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression in
Schizosaccharomyces pombe.

Gobeil LA(1), Plante P, Rohani M, Ouellette M, Provost P.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche en Rhumatologie et Immunologie, Centre de Recherche du
CHUL-CHUQ, Quebec, QC, G1V 4G2, Canada.

The ribonuclease III Dicer (Dcr1) has been shown to be required for chromosome
segregation and gene silencing in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. These effects are
thought to be transcriptional, mediated by formation and maintenance of
heterochromatin, and guided by small RNAs derived from Dcr1 along a process known
as RNA interference. In order to get further insights into the gene regulatory
role of Dcr1, we performed comparative analyses of dcr1 knockout and wild-type
fission yeast strains. Analysis of part of the soluble proteomes identified eight
cellular proteins whose expression is under Dcr1 control, three of which are
integral constituents of the glycolysis pathway. Further correlations with their 
respective mRNA transcript levels are compatible with the existence of a
post-transcriptional gene regulatory mechanism involving Dcr1 or a Dcr1 complex. 
Experiments designed to identify components of Dcr1 complexes unveiled two novel 
Dcr1 interactors, namely the zinc finger protein Byr3 and the ribosomal protein
L12. Consistently enriched in Dcr1 immune complexes, Byr3 and L12 may link Dcr1
to the transcriptional and translational machineries, respectively, and
contribute to post-transcriptional gene regulation in fission yeast.


PMCID: PMC2930013
PMID: 17981703  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Biochem Biophys Methods. 2008 Apr 24;70(6):985-91. Epub 2007 Sep 5.

Analytical approach for selecting normalizing genes from a cDNA microarray
platform to be used in q-RT-PCR assays: a cnidarian case study.

Rodriguez-Lanetty M(1), Phillips WS, Dove S, Hoegh-Guldberg O, Weis VM.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies /Centre for Marine Studies,
University of Queensland, St. Lucia QLD 4072, Australia.
m.rodriguez-lanetty@uq.edu.au

Research in gene function using Quantitative Reverse Transcription PCR (q-RT-PCR)
and microarray approaches are emerging and just about to explode in the field of 
coral and cnidarian biology. These approaches are showing the great potential to 
significantly advance our understanding of how corals respond to abiotic and
biotic stresses, and how host cnidarians/dinoflagellates symbioses are maintained
and regulated. With these genomic advances, however, new analytical challenges
are also emerging, such as the normalization of gene expression data derived from
q-RT-PCR. In this study, an effective analytical method is introduced to identify
candidate housekeeping genes (HKG) from a sea anemone (Anthopleura elegantissima)
cDNA microarray platform that can be used as internal control genes to normalize 
q-RT-PCR gene expression data. It is shown that the identified HKGs were stable
among the experimental conditions tested in this study. The three most stables
genes identified, in term of gene expression, were beta-actin, ribosomal protein 
L12, and a Poly(a) binding protein. The applications of these HKGs in other
cnidarian systems are further discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbbm.2007.08.005 
PMID: 17913235  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Exp Cell Res. 2007 May 15;313(9):1778-89. Epub 2007 Mar 15.

The arginine methyltransferase Rmt2 is enriched in the nucleus and co-purifies
with the nuclear porins Nup49, Nup57 and Nup100.

Olsson I(1), Berrez JM, Leipus A, Ostlund C, Mutvei A.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, Södertörns Högskola, SE-141 89 Huddinge, Sweden.

Arginine methylation is a post-translational modification of proteins implicated 
in RNA processing, protein compartmentalization, signal transduction,
transcriptional regulation and DNA repair. In a screen for proteins associated
with the nuclear envelope in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we have
identified the arginine methyltransferase Rmt2, previously shown to methylate the
ribosomal protein L12. By indirect immunofluorescence and subcellular
fractionations we demonstrate here that Rmt2 has nuclear and cytoplasmic
localizations. Biochemical analysis of a fraction enriched in nuclei reveals that
nuclear Rmt2 is resistant to extractions with salt and detergent, indicating an
association with structural components. This was supported by affinity
purification experiments with TAP-tagged Rmt2. Rmt2 was found to co-purify with
the nucleoporins Nup49, Nup57 and Nup100, revealing a novel link between arginine
methyltransferases and the nuclear pore complex. In addition, a genome-wide
transcription study of the rmt2Delta mutant shows significant downregulation of
the transcription of MYO1, encoding the Type II myosin heavy chain required for
cytokinesis and cell separation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2007.03.007 
PMID: 17448464  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Biochimie. 2007 May;89(5):658-68. Epub 2007 Feb 20.

Four paralogues of RPL12 are differentially associated to ribosome in plant
mitochondria.

Delage L(1), Giegé P, Sakamoto M, Maréchal-Drouard L.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Biologie Moléculaire des Plantes, Laboratoire Propre du CNRS
(UPR2357) Conventionné avec l'Université Louis Pasteur, 12 rue du Général Zimmer,
67084 Strasbourg Cedex, France.

Ribosomal protein L12 is the only component present in four copies in the
ribosome. In prokaryotes as well as in yeast and human mitochondria, all copies
correspond to the same RPL12. By contrast, we present here evidence that plant
mitochondria contain four different RPL12 proteins. Compared to E. coli RPL12,
the four mature RPL12 variants show a conserved C-terminal region that contains
all the functional domains of prokaryotic RPL12 but three of them present an
additional N-terminal extension containing either an acidic or a basic domain and
a high level of proline residues. All proteins have a potential mitochondrial
N-terminal targeting sequence and were imported in vitro into isolated
mitochondria. Using RPL12 antibodies, the four variants were shown to be present 
in a potato mitochondrial ribosome fraction. Moreover, the four proteins reacted 
differently to the destabilization of ribosomes. This suggests either a
heterogeneous RPL12 composition among each ribosome and/or a heterogeneous
population of plant mitochondrial ribosomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2007.02.002 
PMID: 17395357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. BMC Evol Biol. 2006 Apr 25;6:37.

The complete chloroplast genome sequence of the chlorophycean green alga
Scenedesmus obliquus reveals a compact gene organization and a biased
distribution of genes on the two DNA strands.

de Cambiaire JC(1), Otis C, Lemieux C, Turmel M.

Author information: 
(1)Département de biochimie et de microbiologie, Université Laval, Québec,
Canada. Jean-Charles.de_Cambiaire@rsvs.ulaval.ca

BACKGROUND: The phylum Chlorophyta contains the majority of the green algae and
is divided into four classes. While the basal position of the Prasinophyceae is
well established, the divergence order of the Ulvophyceae, Trebouxiophyceae and
Chlorophyceae (UTC) remains uncertain. The five complete chloroplast DNA (cpDNA) 
sequences currently available for representatives of these classes display
considerable variability in overall structure, gene content, gene density, intron
content and gene order. Among these genomes, that of the chlorophycean green alga
Chlamydomonas reinhardtii has retained the least ancestral features. The two
single-copy regions, which are separated from one another by the large inverted
repeat (IR), have similar sizes, rather than unequal sizes, and differ radically 
in both gene contents and gene organizations relative to the single-copy regions 
of prasinophyte and ulvophyte cpDNAs. To gain insights into the various changes
that underwent the chloroplast genome during the evolution of chlorophycean green
algae, we have sequenced the cpDNA of Scenedesmus obliquus, a member of a
distinct chlorophycean lineage.
RESULTS: The 161,452 bp IR-containing genome of Scenedesmus features single-copy 
regions of similar sizes, encodes 96 genes, i.e. only two additional genes (infA 
and rpl12) relative to its Chlamydomonas homologue and contains seven group I and
two group II introns. It is clearly more compact than the four UTC algal cpDNAs
that have been examined so far, displays the lowest proportion of short repeats
among these algae and shows a stronger bias in clustering of genes on the same
DNA strand compared to Chlamydomonas cpDNA. Like the latter genome, Scenedesmus
cpDNA displays only a few ancestral gene clusters. The two chlorophycean genomes 
share 11 gene clusters that are not found in previously sequenced trebouxiophyte 
and ulvophyte cpDNAs as well as a few genes that have an unusual structure;
however, their single-copy regions differ considerably in gene content.
CONCLUSION: Our results underscore the remarkable plasticity of the chlorophycean
chloroplast genome. Owing to this plasticity, only a sketchy portrait could be
drawn for the chloroplast genome of the last common ancestor of Scenedesmus and
Chlamydomonas.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-6-37 
PMCID: PMC1513399
PMID: 16638149  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Anal Quant Cytol Histol. 2005 Oct;27(5):263-72.

Proteomic analysis of protein expression in prostate cancer.

Lexander H(1), Palmberg C, Auer G, Hellström M, Franzén B, Jörnvall H, Egevad L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oncology and Pathology, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate protein expression in prostate cancer using
2-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) and mass spectrometry.
STUDY DESIGN: Cells were collected from 29 peripheral zone tumors and from benign
tissue by scraping cut surfaces of radical prostatectomy specimens. Samples were 
suspended in a medium with protease inhibitors and prepared for 2-DE. Gels were
analyzed, and protein spots that differed quantitatively between tumor and benign
tissue were identified via mass spectrometric fingerprinting of tryptic fragments
and tandem mass spectrometry sequence analysis.
RESULTS: In total, 63 spots differed between cancer and benign samples (p <
0.01); 56 were overexpressed (> 1.5 fold) in cancer and 7 underexpressed (< 0.6
fold). Among overexpressed proteins were transcription factors (nucleoside
diphosphate kinase 1) and enzymes involved in gene silencing (chromobox protein),
protein synthesis (39S ribosomal protein L12, BiP protein, protein disulfide
isomerase), degradation (cytosol aminopeptidase, endopeptidase Clp, inorganic
pyrophosphatase) and energy metabolism (acyl-CoA dehydrogenase, isocitrate
dehydrogenase, NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase, pyruvate dehydrogenase),
heat-shock proteins (60 and 70 kd), structural proteins (cytokeratins) and
membrane proteins (stomatinlike protein 2).
CONCLUSION: The protein profile of prostate cancer differs from that of benign
tissue. Several potential target proteins for detection or evaluation of
prognosis in prostate cancer were identified.


PMID: 16447818  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Planta. 2006 May;223(6):1315-28. Epub 2005 Dec 7.

Nocturnal changes in leaf growth of Populus deltoides are controlled by
cytoplasmic growth.

Matsubara S(1), Hurry V, Druart N, Benedict C, Janzik I, Chavarría-Krauser A,
Walter A, Schurr U.

Author information: 
(1)Institut for Chemistry and Dynamics of the Geosphere: Phytosphere (ICG-III),
Research Centre Jülich, 52425 Jülich, Germany. s.matsubara@fz-juelich.de

Growing leaves do not expand at a constant rate but exhibit pronounced diel
growth rhythms. However, the mechanisms giving rise to distinct diel growth
dynamics in different species are still largely unknown. As a first step towards 
identifying genes controlling rate and timing of leaf growth, we analysed the
transcriptomes of rapidly expanding and fully expanded leaves of Populus
deltoides Bartr. ex. Marsh at points of high and low expansion at night. Tissues 
with well defined temporal growth rates were harvested using an online
growth-monitoring system based on a digital image sequence processing method
developed for quantitative mapping of dicot leaf growth. Unlike plants studied
previously, leaf growth in P. deltoides was characterised by lack of a base-tip
gradient across the lamina, and by maximal and minimal growth at dusk and dawn,
respectively. Microarray analysis revealed that the nocturnal decline in growth
coincided with a concerted down-regulation of ribosomal protein genes, indicating
deceleration of cytoplasmic growth. In a subsequent time-course experiment,
Northern blotting and real-time RT-PCR confirmed that the ribosomal protein gene 
RPL12 and a cell-cycle gene H2B were down-regulated after midnight following a
decrease in cellular carbohydrate concentrations. Thus, we propose that the
spatio-temporal growth pattern in leaves of P. deltoides primarily arises from
cytoplasmic growth whose activity increases from afternoon to midnight and
thereafter decreases in this species.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-005-0181-0 
PMID: 16333638  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Nucleic Acids Res. 2005 Oct 27;33(18):5965-77. Print 2005.

Alternative splicing and nonsense-mediated mRNA decay regulate mammalian
ribosomal gene expression.

Cuccurese M(1), Russo G, Russo A, Pietropaolo C.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biochimica e Biotecnologie Mediche, Università Federico II,
via Sergio Pansini 5, Napoli 80131, Italy.

Messenger RNAs containing premature stop codons are generally targeted for
degradation through nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD). This mechanism degrades
aberrant transcripts derived from mutant genes containing nonsense or frameshift 
mutations. Wild-type genes also give rise to transcripts targeted by NMD. For
example, some wild-type genes give rise to alternatively spliced transcripts that
are targeted for decay by NMD. In Caenorhabditis elegans, the ribosomal protein
(rp) L12 gene generates a nonsense codon-bearing alternatively spliced transcript
that is induced in an autoregulatory manner by the rpL12 protein. By
pharmacologically blocking the NMD pathway, we identified alternatively spliced
mRNA transcripts derived from the human rpL3 and rpL12 genes that are natural
targets of NMD. The deduced protein sequence of these alternatively spliced
transcripts suggests that they are unlikely to encode functional ribosomal
proteins. Overexpression of rpL3 increased the level of the alternatively spliced
rpL3 mRNA and decreased the normally expressed rpL3. This indicates that rpL3
regulates its own production by a negative feedback loop and suggests the
possibility that NMD participates in this regulatory loop by degrading the
non-functional alternatively spliced transcript.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gki905 
PMCID: PMC1270949
PMID: 16254077  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Mol Ecol. 2005 Mar;14(3):793-803.

Phylogeographic analysis of the red seaweed Palmaria palmata reveals a
Pleistocene marine glacial refugium in the English Channel.

Provan J(1), Wattier RA, Maggs CA.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, The Queen's University of Belfast, 97
Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7BL, Northern Ireland. J.Provan@qub.ac.uk

Phylogeography has provided a new approach to the analysis of the postglacial
history of a wide range of taxa but, to date, little is known about the effect of
glacial periods on the marine biota of Europe. We have utilized a combination of 
nuclear, plastid and mitochondrial genetic markers to study the biogeographic
history of the red seaweed Palmaria palmata in the North Atlantic. Analysis of
the nuclear rDNA operon (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2), the plastid 16S-trnI-trnA-23S-5S,
rbcL-rbcS and rpl12-rps31-rpl9 regions and the mitochondrial cox2-3 spacer has
revealed the existence of a previously unidentified marine refugium in the
English Channel, along with possible secondary refugia off the southwest coast of
Ireland and in northeast North America and/or Iceland. Coalescent and mismatch
analyses date the expansion of European populations from approximately 128,000 BP
and suggest a continued period of exponential growth since then. Consequently, we
postulate that the penultimate (Saale) glacial maximum was the main event in
shaping the biogeographic history of European P. palmata populations which
persisted throughout the last (Weichselian) glacial maximum (c. 20,000 BP) in the
Hurd Deep, an enigmatic trench in the English Channel.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2005.02447.x 
PMID: 15723670  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Biochem Mol Biol. 2005 Jan 31;38(1):89-96.

The mutation that makes Escherichia coli resistant to lambda P gene-mediated host
lethality is located within the DNA initiator Gene dnaA of the bacterium.

Datta I(1), Banik-Maiti S, Adhikari L, Sau S, Das N, Mandal NC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Bose Institute, Acharya J. C. Bose Birth Centenary
Building, P-1/12, CIT Scheme VII M, Calcutta 700 054, India.

Earlier, we reported that the bacteriophage lambda P gene product is lethal to
Escherichia coli, and the E. coli rpl mutants are resistant to this lambda P
gene-mediated lethality. In this paper, we show that under the lambda P
gene-mediated lethal condition, the host DNA synthesis is inhibited at the
initiation step. The rpl8 mutation maps around the 83 min position in the E. coli
chromosome and is 94 % linked with the dnaA gene. The rpl8 mutant gene has been
cloned in a plasmid. This plasmid clone can protect the wild-type E. coli from
lambda P gene-mediated killing and complements E. coli dnaAts46 at 42 degrees C. 
Also, starting with the wild-type dnaA gene in a plasmid, the rpl-like mutations 
have been isolated by in vitro mutagenesis. DNA sequencing data show that each of
the rpl8, rpl12 and rpl14 mutations has changed a single base in the dnaA gene,
which translates into the amino acid changes N313T, Y200N, and S246T respectively
within the DnaA protein. These results have led us to conclude that the rpl
mutations, which make E. coli resistant to lambda P gene-mediated host lethality,
are located within the DNA initiator gene dnaA of the host.


PMID: 15715952  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Mol Reprod Dev. 2004 Sep;69(1):43-51.

Identification of differentially regulated genes in bovine blastocysts using an
annealing control primer system.

Hwang KC(1), Cui XS, Park SP, Shin MR, Park SY, Kim EY, Kim NH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Science, Chungbuk National University, Cheongju,
Chungbuk, 361-763 South Korea.

The identification of embryo-specific genes would provide insights into early
embryonic development. However, the current methods employed to identify the
genes that are expressed at a specific developmental stage are labor intensive
and suffer from high rates of false positives. Here we employed a new and
accurate reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technology that
involves annealing control primers (ACPs) to identify the genes that are
specifically or prominently expressed in bovine early blastocysts and hatched
blastocysts produced in vitro. Using these techniques, a total of nine expressed 
sequence tags (ESTs) of genes that were differentially expressed in hatched
blastocysts, as compared to blastocyst embryos, were cloned and sequenced. The
cloned genes or ESTs (C1-C9) all exhibited significant sequence similarity with
known bovine genes (99-100%; FTL, RPS12, LAPTM4a, and RPL12) or ESTs (80-94%;
AIBP, CULLIN-1, HDLP, COX5a, and RECS1) of other species. As revealed by real
time RT-PCR, these genes were regulated upstream in the hatched blastocyst stage 
during early implantation. These results suggest that this new, PCR-based
differential display RT-PCR technique is a very useful tool for the
identification of stage-specific genes of preimplantation embryos.

DOI: 10.1002/mrd.20156 
PMID: 15278903  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Biol Chem. 2002 May 3;277(18):15345-53. Epub 2002 Feb 20.

Yeast ribosomal protein L12 is a substrate of protein-arginine methyltransferase 
2.

Chern MK(1), Chang KN, Liu LF, Tam TC, Liu YC, Liang YL, Tam MF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, NanKang Taipei, Taiwan 11529,
Republic of China.

Type III protein-arginine methyltransferase from the yeast Saccharomyces
cerevisiae (RMT2) was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified to apparent
homogeneity. The cytosolic, ribosomal, and ribosome salt wash fractions from
yeast cells lacking RMT2 were used as substrates for the recombinant RMT2. Using 
S-adenosyl-l-methionine as co-substrate, RMT2 methylated a protein in the
ribosome salt wash fraction. The same protein in the ribosomal fraction was also 
methylated by RMT2 after pretreating the sample with endonuclease. Amino acid
analysis affirmed that the labeling products were delta-N-monomethylarginines.
The methylated protein from the ribosomal or the ribosome salt wash fraction was 
isolated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and identified as ribosomal
protein L12 by mass spectrometry. Using synthetic peptides, recombinant L12, and 
its mutant as substrates, we pinpointed Arg(67) on ribosomal protein L12 as the
methyl acceptor. L12 was isolated from wild type yeast cells that have been grown
in the presence of S-adenosyl-l-[methyl-(3)H]methionine and subjected to amino
acid analysis. The results indicate that L12 contains
delta-N-monomethylarginines.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M111379200 
PMID: 11856739  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Microb Pathog. 2002 Mar;32(3):117-25.

L12 enhances gonococcal transcytosis of polarized Hec1B cells via the lutropin
receptor.

Spence JM(1), Tyler RE, Domaoal RA, Clark VL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine and Dentistry,
Rochester, NY 14642, U.S.A.

We previously reported that gonococci convert to a more invasive phenotype
(Inv(+)GC) following contact with cells expressing the lutropin receptor (LHr)
and that Inv(+)GC express a novel adhesin that interacts with LHr. We propose
that this adhesion allows Inv(+)GC to activate LHr and induce gonococcal
transcytosis, usurping normal LHr function in fallopian and endometrial
epithelium, which is to transport fetal chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) into the
mother. Infected polarized Hec1B monolayers, grown on collagen-coated transwells,
showed that the passage of GC across the monolayer occurred rapidly, within 30
min, and proceeded at a constant rate with Inv(+)GC passage three-fold faster
than GC grown in tissue culture media alone (Inv(-)GC). Electron microscopy found
that Inv(+)GC triggered pseudopod formation around the bacterium, with GC found
throughout the Hec1B targets within 30 min, while Inv(-)GC did neither.
Pre-treatment of Inv(-)GC with recombinant ribosomal protein L12, a gonococcal
"hCG-like" protein previously shown to increase invasion, also increased Inv(-)GC
transcytosis to the rate of Inv(+)GC. This enhancement was completely abolished
by addition of luteinizing hormone, a cognate ligand of LHr. This is convincing
evidence that surface expressed L12 mediates gonococcal invasion and transcytosis
via LHr, a mechanism that could be important in the development of invasive
gonococcal disease in women.

Copyright 2002 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/mpat.2001.0484 
PMID: 11855942  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Mol Cell Biol. 2002 Feb;22(4):1266-75.

Ribosomal protein L12 uses a distinct nuclear import pathway mediated by importin
11.

Plafker SM(1), Macara IG.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cell Signaling and Department of Pharmacology, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA. smp5g@virginia.edu

Ribosome biogenesis requires the nuclear translocation of ribosomal proteins from
their site of synthesis in the cytoplasm to the nucleus. Analyses of the import
mechanisms have revealed that most ribosomal proteins can be delivered to the
nucleus by multiple transport receptors (karyopherins or importins). We now
provide evidence that ribosomal protein L12 (rpL12) is distinguished from the
bulk of ribosomal proteins because it accesses the importin 11 pathway as a major
route into the nucleus. rpL12 specifically and directly interacted with importin 
11 in vitro and in vivo. Both rpL12 binding to and import by importin 11 were
inhibited by another importin 11 substrate, UbcM2, indicating that these two
cargoes may bind overlapping sites on the transport receptor. In contrast, the
import of rpL23a, a ribosomal protein that uses the general ribosomal protein
import system, was not competed by UbcM2, and in an in vitro binding assay,
importin 11 did not bind to the nuclear localization signal of rpL23a.
Furthermore, in a transient transfection assay, the nuclear accumulation of rpL12
was increased by coexpressed importin 11, but not by other importins. These data 
are consistent with importin 11 being a mediator of rpL12 nuclear import. Taken
together, these results indicate that rpL12 uses a distinct nuclear import
pathway that may contribute to a mechanism for regulating ribosome synthesis
and/or maturation.


PMCID: PMC134630
PMID: 11809816  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Infect Immun. 2000 Sep;68(9):5002-10.

Role of ribosomal protein L12 in gonococcal invasion of Hec1B cells.

Spence JM(1), Clark VL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, School of Medicine and Dentistry,
University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, USA.

Previous studies led to the development of a model of contact-induced enhanced
gonococcal invasion of human reproductive cells that utilizes the lutropin
receptor (LHr) as both the induction signal for conversion to this
enhanced-gonococcal-invasion phenotype (Inv(+) GC) and as the specific Inv(+) GC 
uptake mechanism. This model proposes that gonococci express a surface feature
that mimics human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), the cognate ligand for LHr, and
that this structure is responsible for the specific and productive interaction of
GC with LHr. In this report, we identify a 13-kDa gonococcal protein with
immunological similarities to hCG. The antiserum reactivity is specific since
interaction with the 13-kDa gonococcal protein can be blocked by the addition of 
highly purified hCG. This gonococcal "hCG-like" protein, purified from
two-dimensional gels and by immunoprecipitation, was determined by N-terminal
sequencing to be the ribosomal protein L12. We present evidence that gonococcal
L12 is membrane associated and surface exposed in gonococci, as shown by
immunoblot analysis of soluble and insoluble gonococcal protein and antibody
adsorption studies with fixed GC. Using highly purified recombinant gonococcal
L12, we show that preincubation of Inv(-) GC with micromolar amounts of rL12
leads to a subsequent five- to eightfold increase in invasion of the human
endometrial cell line, Hec1B. In addition, nanomolar concentrations of exogenous 
L12 inhibits gonococcal invasion to approximately 70% of the level in controls.
Thus, we propose a novel cellular location for the gonococcal ribosomal protein
L12 and concomitant function in LHr-mediated gonococcal invasion of human
reproductive cells.


PMCID: PMC101722
PMID: 10948117  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Biol Chem. 2000 Mar;381(3):221-9.

Structural investigations of the highly flexible recombinant ribosomal protein
L12 from Thermotoga maritima.

Wahl MC(1), Huber R, Marinkoviç S, Weyher-Stingl E, Ehlert S.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Abteilung Strukturforschung, Martinsried,
Germany.

Ribosomal protein L7/L12, the only multicopy component of the ribosome, is
involved in translation factor binding and in the ribosomal GTPase center. The
gene for L7/L12 from Thermotoga maritima was cloned and the protein expressed at 
high levels in Escherichia coli. Purification of L7/L12 was achieved under
non-denaturing conditions via heat treatment and two chromatographic steps.
Circular dichroism melting profiles were monitored at 222 nm, showing the melting
temperature of the protein at pH 7.5 around 110 degrees C, compared to
approximately 60 degrees C for the highly homologous Escherichia coli protein.
The unfolding was reversible and renaturation closely followed the path of the
thermal melting. Dynamic light scattering, gel filtration chromatography, and
crosslinking experiments suggested that under physiological buffer conditions
Thermotoga maritima L7/L12 exists as a tetramer. The protein was crystallized
under two conditions, yielding an orthorhombic (C222(1)) and a cubic (12(1)3)
space group with an estimated two and three to four L7/L12 molecules per
asymmetric unit, respectively. The crystals contained the full-length protein,
and cryogenic buffers were developed which improved the mosaic spreads and the
resolution limits. For the structure solution isoleucine was mutated to
methionine at two separate positions, the mutant forms expressed as
selenomethionine variants and crystallized.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2000.029 
PMID: 10782993  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Genome Res. 2000 Apr;10(4):454-72.

Construction of a high-resolution 2.5-Mb transcript map of the human
6p21.2-6p21.3 region immediately centromeric of the major histocompatibility
complex.

Tripodis N(1), Palmer S, Phillips S, Milne S, Beck S, Ragoussis J.

Author information: 
(1)Genomics Laboratory, Division of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Guy's Campus,
GKT School of Medicine, King's College London SE1 9RT, UK.

We have constructed a 2.5-Mb physical and transcription map that spans the human 
6p21.2-6p21.3 region and includes the centromeric end of the MHC, using a
combination of techniques. In total 88 transcription units including exons,
cDNAs, and cDNA contigs were characterized and 60 were confidently positioned on 
the physical map. These include a number of genes encoding nuclear and splicing
factors (Ndr kinase, HSU09564, HSRP20); cell cycle, DNA packaging, and apoptosis 
related [p21, HMGI(Y), BAK]; immune response (CSBP, SAPK4); transcription
activators and zinc finger-containing genes (TEF-5, ZNF76); embryogenesis related
(Csa-19); cell signaling (DIPP); structural (HSET), and other genes (TULP1,
HSPRARD, DEF-6, EO6811, cyclophilin), as well as a number of RP genes and
pseudogenes (RPS10, RPS12-like, RPL12-like, RPL35-like). Furthermore, several
novel genes (a Br140-like, a G2S-like, a FBN2-like, a ZNF-like, and B1/KIAA0229) 
have been identified, as well as cDNAs and cDNA contigs. The detailed map of the 
gene content of this chromosomal segment provides a number of candidate genes,
which may be involved in several biological processes that have been associated
with this region, such as spermatogenesis, development, embryogenesis, and
neoplasia. The data provide useful tools for synteny studies between mice and
humans, for genome structure analysis, gene density comparisons, and studies of
nucleotide composition, of different isochores and Giemsa light and Giemsa dark
bands.


PMCID: PMC310888
PMID: 10779486  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. EMBO J. 2000 Jan 17;19(2):174-86.

Flexibility, conformational diversity and two dimerization modes in complexes of 
ribosomal protein L12.

Wahl MC(1), Bourenkov GP, Bartunik HD, Huber R.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Biochemie, Abteilung Strukturforschung, Am
Klopferspitz 18a, D-82152 Martinsried, Germany. mwahl@biochem.mpg.de

Protein L12, the only multicopy component of the ribosome, is presumed to be
involved in the binding of translation factors, stimulating factor-dependent GTP 
hydrolysis. Crystal structures of L12 from Thermotogamaritima have been solved in
two space groups by the multiple anomalous dispersion method and refined at 2.4
and 2.0 A resolution. In both crystal forms, an asymmetric unit comprises two
full-length L12 molecules and two N-terminal L12 fragments that are associated in
a specific, hetero-tetrameric complex with one non-crystallographic 2-fold axis. 
The two full-length proteins form a tight, symmetric, parallel dimer, mainly
through their N-terminal domains. Each monomer of this central dimer additionally
associates in a different way with an N-terminal L12 fragment. Both dimerization 
modes are unlike models proposed previously and suggest that similar complexes
may occur in vivo and in situ. The structures also display different L12 monomer 
conformations, in accord with the suggested dynamic role of the protein in the
ribosomal translocation process. The structures have been submitted to the
Protein Databank (http://www.rcsb.org/pdb) under accession numbers 1DD3 and 1DD4.

DOI: 10.1093/emboj/19.2.174 
PMCID: PMC305552
PMID: 10637222  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Immunogenetics. 1999 Jul;49(7-8):644-52.

Genomic organization of the HSET locus and the possible association of HLA-linked
genes with immotile cilia syndrome (ICS).

Janitz K(1), Wild A, Beck S, Savasta S, Beluffi G, Ziegler A, Volz A.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Immungenetik, Universitätsklinikum Charité, Humboldt Universität 
zu Berlin, Spandauer Damm 130, 14050 Berlin, Germany.

The kinesin-related protein (HSET) gene belongs to the kinesin superfamily, the
members of which are involved in cellular transport processes. The HSET gene
product was previously characterized by partial cDNA sequencing. The gene is
located on the short arm of human Chromosome 6 (6p21.3), at the centromeric end
of the major histocompatibility complex. Here, we report the genomic structure of
the complete HSET gene together with its flanking loci. Sequence analysis of the 
40 kilobase (kb) cosmid clone containing the HSET gene also revealed the presence
of several new genes not related to the kinesin superfamily. These include a 60S 
ribosomal protein L35A-like pseudogene (rPL35A-like) on the telomeric side and a 
polycomb-like gene (PHF1), a copper tolerance-like gene (CUTA1) and the 5' part
of the synaptic ras-GTPase-activating protein (SynGAP) gene centromeric of HSET. 
In addition, a complete 60S ribosomal protein L12-like (rPL12L) gene in intron 3 
of the HSET gene was identified which appears to have an open reading frame. The 
possible involvement of the HSET gene and a beta-tubulin gene (TUBB) in the
pathogenesis of immotile cilia syndrome (ICS) was studied by screening two
unrelated ICS families with microtubular defects and suspected HLA linkage for
mutations within the HSET gene and the TUBB gene. Four single base substitutions 
were detected in the HSET gene, and none in the TUBB gene. On the basis of these 
data, a role of the HSET and TUBB products in the pathogenesis of ICS in the two 
families is unlikely.


PMID: 10369922  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. FEBS Lett. 1999 May 7;450(3):231-4.

A novel plant nuclear gene encoding chloroplast ribosomal protein S9 has a
transit peptide related to that of rice chloroplast ribosomal protein L12.

Arimura S(1), Takusagawa S, Hatano S, Nakazono M, Hirai A, Tsutsumi N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Radiation Genetics, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Japan.

We have cloned a novel nuclear gene for a ribosomal protein of rice and
Arabidopsis that is like the bacterial ribosomal protein S9. To determine the
subcellular localization of the gene product, we fused the N-terminal region and 
green fluorescent protein and expressed it transiently in rice seedlings.
Localized fluorescence was detectable only in chloroplasts, indicating that this 
nuclear gene encodes chloroplast ribosomal protein S9. The N-terminal region of
rice ribosomal protein S9 was found to have a high sequence similarity to the
transit peptide region of the rice chloroplast ribosomal protein L12, suggesting 
that these transit peptides have a common lineage.


PMID: 10359080  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 1999 Apr;29(4):349-53.

The Drosophila homologue of ribosomal protein L8.

Ruhf ML(1), Meister M.

Author information: 
(1)Unité Propre de Recherche 9022, Réponse Immunitaire et Développement chez les 
Insectes, Institut de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Strasbourg, France.

We have cloned the gene encoding the Drosophila melanogaster homologue of
ribosomal protein L8. It contains two introns: one in the 5' untranslated region 
and the second in the beginning of the ORF, and encodes a 256-residue protein
which is highly conserved when compared with RpL8 proteins of other organisms.
The gene is present as a single copy in the Drosophila genome and maps at
position 62E6-7 on polytene chromosomes. It is expressed ubiquitously at all
stages of development. It is located close to the gene encoding RpL12 and both
are candidate targets of the Minute mutation, M(3)LS2, mapped in the region
62E-63A.


PMID: 10333574  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1999 May 15;365(2):254-61.

Structure-function relationships in the ribosomal protein L12 in the archaeon
Sulfolobus acidocaldarius.

Kusser I(1), Lowing C, Rathlef C, Köpke AK, Matheson AT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Victoria, Victoria,
British Columbia, V8W 3P6, Canada.

A series of mutant L12 ribosomal proteins was prepared by site-directed mutations
in the L12 protein gene of the archaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius. The mutant
protein genes were overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the products purified
and incorporated into ribosomal cores which had been ethanol extracted to remove 
wild-type L12 protein. Measurements were made to determine if the mutation
affected the binding of the L12 protein to the ribosome core or affected the
translational activity of the resulting ribosome. Changing tyrosine [3] or
tyrosine [5], conserved in all archaea and present in all eukarya in positions
[3] and [7], to phenylalanine had no effect on binding or translational activity 
while changes to glycine significantly reduced binding and translational
activity. Changing the single arginine [37] residue, conserved in almost all
archaeal and eukaryal L12 proteins, to lysine, glutamic acid, glutamine, or
glycine had no effect on binding to the core and had little or no significant
effect on translational activity. The same was true when lysine [39], conserved
in all archaeal L12 proteins, was changed to arginine, glutamic acid, glutamine, 
or glycine. Changing phenylalanine [104], the penultimate amino acid at the
C-terminal end, which is conserved in all archaeal and eukaryal L12 proteins, to 
tyrosine or glycine had no effect on binding but lowered the translational
activity by 60 and 75%, respectively, suggesting that this amino acid plays an
important role in translation. Deletion of the highly charged region in the
C-terminal domain, which is present in all archaeal and eukaryal L12 proteins,
decreased transitional activity by 50%, suggesting this region is also involved
in factor interactions.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/abbi.1999.1154 
PMID: 10328820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1997 May 27;94(11):5967-72.

Complete nucleotide sequence of the chloroplast genome from the green alga
Chlorella vulgaris: the existence of genes possibly involved in chloroplast
division.

Wakasugi T(1), Nagai T, Kapoor M, Sugita M, Ito M, Ito S, Tsudzuki J, Nakashima
K, Tsudzuki T, Suzuki Y, Hamada A, Ohta T, Inamura A, Yoshinaga K, Sugiura M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Gene Research, Nagoya University, Nagoya 464-01, Japan.

The complete nucleotide sequence of the chloroplast genome (150,613 bp) from the 
unicellular green alga Chlorella vulgaris C-27 has been determined. The genome
contains no large inverted repeat and has one copy of rRNA gene cluster
consisting of 16S, 23S, and 5S rRNA genes. It contains 31 tRNA genes, of which
the tRNALeu(GAG) gene has not been found in land plant chloroplast DNAs analyzed 
so far. Sixty-nine protein genes and eight ORFs conserved with those found in
land plant chloroplasts have also been found. The most striking is the existence 
of two adjacent genes homologous to bacterial genes involved in cell division,
minD and minE, which are arranged in the same order in Escherichia coli. This
finding suggests that the mechanism of chloroplast division is similar to
bacterial division. Other than minD and minE homologues, genes encoding ribosomal
proteins L5, L12, L19, and S9 (rpl5, rpl12, rpl19, and rps9); a chlorophyll
biosynthesis Mg chelating subunit (chlI); and elongation factor EF-Tu (tufA),
which have not been reported from land plant chloroplast DNAs, are present in
this genome. However, many of the new chloroplast genes recently found in red and
brown algae have not been found in C. vulgaris. Furthermore, this algal species
possesses two long ORFs related to ycf1 and ycf2 that are exclusively found in
land plants. These observations suggest that C. vulgaris is closer to land plants
than to red and brown algae.


PMCID: PMC20890
PMID: 9159184  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


61. J Biol Chem. 1997 Feb 7;272(6):3302-8.

Binding of mammalian ribosomal protein complex P0.P1.P2 and protein L12 to the
GTPase-associated domain of 28 S ribosomal RNA and effect on the accessibility to
anti-28 S RNA autoantibody.

Uchiumi T(1), Kominami R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Niigata University School of Medicine, Niigata 951
Japan.

We have investigated binding of rat ribosomal proteins to the "GTPase domain" of 
28 S rRNA and its effect on accessibility to the anti-28 S autoantibody, which
recognizes a unique tertiary structure of this RNA domain. Ribosomal protein L12 
and P protein complex (P complex) consisting of P0, P1, and P2 both bound to the 
GTPase domain of rat 28 S rRNA in a buffer containing Mg2. Chemical footprinting 
analysis of their binding sites revealed that the P complex mainly protected a
conserved internal loop region comprising residues 1855-1861 and 1920-1922,
whereas L12 protected an adjacent helix region encompassing residues 1867-1878
and 1887-1899. These sites are close to but distinct from the binding site for
anti-28 S antibody determined previously. The bindings of P complex and L12
increased the anti-28 S accessibility, as revealed by gel retardation and
quantitative immunoprecipitation analyses. In a Mg2+-eliminated condition, the
RNA failed to bind to either anti-28 S or L12 but assembled into a complex under 
their coexistence. However, the RNA retained a property of binding to the P
complex even in the absence of Mg2+, and this binding conferred high anti-28 S
accessibility. These results indicated that the bindings of the P complex and L12
to their respective sites influenced the GTPase domain to increase the
accessibility to anti-28 S. A possible RNA conformation adjusted by the protein
bindings is discussed.


PMID: 9013569  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Clin Exp Immunol. 1994 Oct;98(1):35-9.

Serological association of lupus autoantibodies to a limited functional domain of
28S ribosomal RNA and to the ribosomal proteins bound to the domain.

Sato T(1), Uchiumi T, Arakawa M, Kominami R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (II) Niigata University School of Medicine, Japan.

Site-specific anti-RNA antibodies were sought in 120 sera of patients with
autoimmune diseases by ribonuclease-protection assay using six fragments covering
28S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) as antigens. Fifteen of 90 sera from patients with
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), but none of 30 sera of the other autoimmune
diseases, provided a 60 nucleotide fragment within a region termed the 'GTPase
domain' of 28S rRNA. These sera had potency to precipitate 0.42-69.3 nmol of the 
RNA domain per ml serum, which was higher than 15 control sera of healthy donors.
No other specific antigenic site was detected in 28S rRNA under conditions used. 
All of the 15 sera having this anti-RNA antibody showed reactivity to ribosomal P
proteins (anti-P), and two of them contained an additional antibody to ribosomal 
protein L12. These results suggested a strong association of the production of
these three antibodies. Since P and L12 proteins form a stable complex with the
GTPase domain, this serological association may result from an immune response to
epitopes clustered on a single RNA-protein complex domain in ribosomes.


PMCID: PMC1534158
PMID: 7923881  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Biochem J. 1994 Jun 15;300 ( Pt 3):787-92.

Substrate- and species-specific processing enzymes for chloroplast precursor
proteins.

Su Q(1), Boschetti A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, University of Bern, Switzerland.

Using different precursors of chloroplast proteins and stromal extracts from both
Chlamydomonas reinhardii and pea chloroplasts, we analysed the specificity of
stroma-localized processing peptidases. By gel filtration of a stromal extract
from isolated Chlamydomonas chloroplasts, fractions could be separated containing
enzymic activities for processing the precursors of the small subunit of
ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase (pSS) and of the protein OEE1 from the
photosynthetic water-splitting complex (pOEE1). The enzymes differed not only in 
molecular size, but also in their sensitivity to inhibitors and in their pH
optima. Obviously, in the stroma of Chlamydomonas chloroplasts different
peptidases exist for processing of pSS and pOEE1, the latter being converted into
an intermediate-sized form, iOEE1, which was found to be further processed to
mature OEE1 by a thylakoid-associated protease. To study the species-specificity 
of the stromal peptidases, stromal extracts from Chlamydomonas and pea
chloroplasts were incubated with pSS from either of these organisms. In the
heterologous combinations, the precursors were partly hydrolysed, but not to the 
correct size. In importation assays, pSS from pea (but also the precursor of the 
ribosomal protein L12 from spinach) could not enter into chloroplasts from
Chlamydomonas. In contrast, the algal pSS was imported into chloroplasts from
pea, although it was not processed to mature SS. Our results indicate that the
importation machinery and the pSS-processing enzymes in higher plants and green
algae have different specificities and that in Chlamydomonas several stromal
peptidases for different precursor proteins exist.


PMCID: PMC1138235
PMID: 8010961  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Biol Chem. 1994 Mar 11;269(10):7330-6.

Multicopy GTPase center protein L12 of Arabidopsis chloroplast ribosome is
encoded by a clustered nuclear gene family with the expressed members closely
linked to tRNA(Pro) genes.

Weglöhner W(1), Subramanian AR.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany.

A conserved architectural feature of ribosomes is a protuberance (the stalk) in
the large subunit, essential for ribosomal interactions with translational
factors and GTP hydrolysis and generated by two dimers of L12, the only multicopy
protein in ribosomes. In higher plants, the rpl12 gene for chloroplast L12 is
located in the nucleus. We report here the cloning and sequencing of this nuclear
gene from Arabidopsis thaliana, revealing the first gene family for a chloroplast
ribosomal protein (RP). A single cluster/haploid genome of three rpl12 genes is
located in the sequenced 9.1-kilobase region of the Arabidopsis genome. Two of
the rpl12 genes encode identical mature proteins, and the third encodes a 25%
divergent RP, although the chloroplast-targeting transit peptide in each is
distinct. The rpl12 genes encoding identical RPs are closely linked at their 5'
ends to identical cytosolic tRNA(Pro) genes with a < 250-base pair spacer.
Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction experiments with total RNA
isolated from Arabidopsis (and characterization of several L12 cDNA clones) show 
that only the tRNA-linked rpl12 genes are expressed. We also show (by polymerase 
chain reaction experiments with isolated total DNA) that this tRNA(Pro)-rpl12
gene linkage is conserved in spinach (inferred to contain a single gene copy)
indicating its importance. The previously described enhanced translation of
spinach L12 mRNA from its two tandem AUG codons and the two functional rpl12
genes in Arabidopsis probably provide two mechanisms for generating the four
copies of L12/chloroplast ribosome, qualitatively different from those attempted 
in eubacteria.


PMID: 8125949  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Biol Chem. 1993 Dec 25;268(36):27447-57.

A novel operon organization involving the genes for chorismate synthase (aromatic
biosynthesis pathway) and ribosomal GTPase center proteins (L11, L1, L10, L12:
rplKAJL) in cyanobacterium Synechocystis PCC 6803.

Schmidt J(1), Bubunenko M, Subramanian AR.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Berlin-Dahlem, Germany.

Many of the ribosomal protein (RP) genes in both bacterial and chloroplast
genomes occur, for reasons not yet understood, in operons that include
nonribosomal genes. Here we report such an operon organization in a
cyanobacterium (Synechocystis PCC6803) involving the genes for four RPs that are 
important in the GTPase function of the ribosome and the aroC gene encoding
chorismate synthase, a key enzyme in the shikimate pathway for biosynthesis of
aromatic amino acids and cell wall components. The Synechocystis aroC encodes a
362-amino-acid residue protein which is 52, 60, and 68% identical to two
eubacterial (both 52%), yeast, and a higher plant (Corydalis) chorismate
synthase, respectively. The gene was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, and the
gene product was shown to cross-react with antibodies to Corydalis chorismate
synthase; it also complemented an aroC-lacking E. coli strain. The Synechocystis 
rpl1 and rpl11 genes encode polypeptides of 237 and 141 amino acid residues,
respectively, also with high sequence identities to the corresponding RP
sequences from other eubacteria and higher plant chloroplasts. The gene order is 
shown to be: rpl11-86bp spacer-rpl1-460bp spacer-rpl10-87-bp spacer-rpl12-206bp
spacer-aroC. Southern and Northern blot analyses of Synechocystis DNA and RNA,
respectively, revealed a single cluster of these genes per genome which is
transcribed from a common promoter to an unusually long, approximately
9500-nucleotide transcript. Several constructs of the cyanobacterial aroC and
rpl12 genes were made and expressed in E. coli to examine the mechanisms for
their very differential expression from a polycistronic mRNA (e.g. four copies
L12/ribosome; chorismate synthase, a non-abundant protein). These results present
the first biochemical/molecular genetic evidence of shikimate pathway in the
cyanobacterial group.


PMID: 7505271  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Bacteriol. 1993 Jun;175(12):3744-8.

Growth rate paradox of Salmonella typhimurium within host macrophages.

Abshire KZ(1), Neidhardt FC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan Medical
School, Ann Arbor 48109-0620.

The growth rate of Salmonella typhimurium U937 within host macrophages was
estimated by two independent methods. The extent to which ribosomal protein L12
is acetylated to produce ribosomal protein L7 changes markedly with the growth
rate. By this measure, the intracellular bacteria appeared to be growing rapidly.
Measurements of viable bacteria, however, indicated that the bacteria were
growing slowly. A solution of this apparent growth rate paradox was sought by
treating U937 cells infected with S. typhimurium X3306 with ampicillin or
chloramphenicol to help determine the number of bacteria that were actively
growing and dividing in the intracellular condition. Use of these antibiotics
showed that by 2 h after invasion, the intracellular bacteria consisted of at
least two populations, one static and the other rapidly dividing. This finding
implies that previously described changes in the gene expression of S.
typhimurium are important for the survival and/or multiplication of the bacteria 
within the macrophage.


PMCID: PMC204790
PMID: 8509329  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1993 Mar 20;1172(3):349-52.

Identification of the nuclear-encoded chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 of the
monocotyledonous plant Secale cereale and sequencing of two different cDNAs with 
strong codon bias.

Schmidt M(1), Pichl L, Lepper M, Feierabend J.

Author information: 
(1)Botanisches Institut, J.W. Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

Two different cDNA clones (SCL12-1 and SCL12-2) encoding precursors of a
chloroplast ribosomal protein with homology to L12 from Escherichia coli were
isolated from rye leaf cDNA libraries and sequenced. The corresponding
polypeptide of rye chloroplast ribosomes was identified. The sequences for the
mature proteins of M(r) 13,447 and 13,609 share 85% amino acid identity. The
mature polypeptide of clone SCL12-1 has an amino acid identity of 71%, 72% or
44%, respectively, relative to L12 proteins from spinach, tobacco, or E. coli.
Codon usage of the rye L12 cDNAs shows a high preference (97% and 82%) for G or C
in the third base position.


PMID: 8448215  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. FEBS Lett. 1992 Apr 6;300(3):199-202.

cDNA cloning and sequencing of tobacco chloroplast ribosomal protein L12.

Li Y(1), Itadani H, Sugita M, Sugiura M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Gene Research, Nagoya University, Japan.

Tobacco chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 was isolated as a
ssDNA-cellulose-binding protein from a chloroplast soluble protein fraction.
Based on the N-terminal amino acid sequence of chloroplast L12, a cDNA clone was 
isolated and characterized. The precursor protein deduced from the DNA sequence
consists of a transient peptide of 53 amino acid residues and a mature L12
protein of 133 amino acid residues. The chloroplast L12 protein was synthesized
with a reticulocyte lysate and subjected to nucleic acid-binding assays. L12
synthesized in vitro does not bind to ssDNA, dsDNA nor ribonucleotide
homopolymers, but it binds to cellulose matrix.


PMID: 1555644  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Nucleic Acids Res. 1992 Feb 25;20(4):689-97.

Nuclear-encoded chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 of Nicotiana tabacum:
characterization of mature protein and isolation and sequence analysis of cDNA
clones encoding its cytoplasmic precursor.

Elhag GA(1), Thomas FJ, McCreery TP, Bourque DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721.

Poly(A)+ mRNA isolated from Nicotiana tabacum (cv. Petite Havana) leaves was used
to prepare a cDNA library in the expression vector lambda gt11. Recombinant phage
containing cDNAs coding for chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 were identified and
sequenced. Mature tobacco L12 protein has 44% amino acid identity with ribosomal 
protein L7/L12 of Escherichia coli. The longest L12 cDNA (733 nucleotides) codes 
for a 13,823 molecular weight polypeptide with a transit peptide of 53 amino
acids and a mature protein of 133 amino acids. The transit peptide and mature
protein share 43% and 79% amino acid identity, respectively, with corresponding
regions of spinach chloroplast ribosomal protein L12. The predicted amino
terminus of the mature protein was confirmed by partial sequence analysis of
HPLC-purified tobacco chloroplast ribosomal protein L12. A single L12 mRNA of
about 0.8 kb was detected by hybridization of L12 cDNA to poly(A)+ and total leaf
RNA. Hybridization patterns of restriction fragments of tobacco genomic DNA
probed with the L12 cDNA suggested the existence of more than one gene for
ribosomal protein L12. Characterization of a second cDNA with an identical L12
coding sequence but a different 3'-noncoding sequence provided evidence that at
least two L12 genes are expressed in tobacco.


PMCID: PMC312006
PMID: 1542565  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Biochimie. 1991 Jun;73(6):647-55.

Genetic engineering and overexpression of ribosomal L12 protein genes from three 
different archaebacteria in E coli.

Köpke AK(1), Hannemann F, Boeckh T.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Abteilung Wittmann, Berlin,
Germany.

Genes coding for ribosomal protein L12 from Methanococcus vannielii (Mva),
Halobacterium halobium (Hha) and Sulfolobus solfataricus (Sso) have been
subcloned in the polylinker region of pUC19. An efficient Shine-Dalgarno sequence
has been attached to the 5' end of the genes, and two ochre stop codons have been
created at their 3' ends, where necessary. In addition, mutants of the MvaL12 and
HhaL12 genes were constructed, which coded for a cysteine residue at the
C-terminus of the protein. The constructs were transferred together with the
pUC19 polylinker as gene cartridges into different expression vectors. These
constructed plasmids were transformed in the appropriate E coli hosts and tested 
for expression. Two systems were found to work efficiently for overexpression,
namely the pKK223-3 vector featuring a tac promoter, and the pT7-5 vector
featuring a T7-promoter. The over-expressed proteins were purified to
homogeneity; their purity was investigated by one and two-dimensional gel
systems, amino acid analysis and N-terminal protein sequencing for 10 steps or
more. The amount of protein purified from E coli test cultures bearing the
expression plasmids was always more than 2.5 mg/l of medium used.


PMID: 1764512  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 1990 Oct 15;172(1):35-41.

The primary structure of rat ribosomal protein L12.

Suzuki K(1), Olvera J, Wool IG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Chicago,
Illinois 60637.

The covalent structure of the rat 60S subunit protein L12 which is a component of
the ribosomal elongation factor binding domain was deduced from the sequence of
nucleotides in a recombinant cDNA and confirmed from the NH2-terminal amino acid 
sequence of the protein. L12 has 165 amino acids and a molecular weight of
17,834. Hybridization of the cDNA to digests of nuclear DNA suggests that there
are 11-13 copies of the L12 gene. The mRNA for the protein is about 800
nucleotides in length. Rat L12 is homologous to Saccharomyces cerevisiae L15. The
cDNA contains the highly repetitive DNA sequence, R.dre.1, in the 3' noncoding
region.


PMID: 1977388  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. J Biol Chem. 1990 Apr 15;265(11):6436-40.

Overexpression of the methanococcal ribosomal protein L12 in Escherichia coli and
its incorporation into halobacterial 50 S subunits yielding active ribosomes.

Köpke AK(1), Paulke C, Gewitz HS.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Abteilung Wittmann, Berlin, West
Germany.

The gene for the ribosomal L12 protein from the archaebacterium Methanococcus
vannielii was cloned into the expression vector pKK223-3. The protein was
overexpressed and remained stable in Escherichia coli XL1 cells. Purification
yielded a protein with the same amino acid composition and sequence as in
Methanococcus but it was acetylated at the N terminus as in the case with the
homologous protein of E. coli. The in vivo incorporation of the overexpressed
protein into the E. coli ribosomes was not observed. The overexpressed M.
vannielii protein MvaL12e was incorporated into halobacterial ribosomes, thereby 
displacing the corresponding halobacterial L12 protein. Intact 70 S ribosomes
were reconstituted from halobacterial 50 S subunits carrying the MvaL12e protein.
These ribosomes were as active as native halobacterial ribosomes in a poly(U)
assay. On the other hand, our attempts to incorporate L12 proteins from Bacillus 
stearothermophilus and E. coli into halobacterial ribosomes were not successful. 
These results support the conclusion which is based on primary sequence and
predicted secondary structure comparisons that there exist two distinct L12
protein families, namely the eubacterial L12 protein family and the
eukaryotic/archaebacterial L12 protein family.


PMID: 2180948  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1989 Aug 31;997(3):268-77.

Phosphorylation by cell surface protein kinase of bovine and human fibrinogen and
fibrin.

Sonka J(1), Kübler D, Kinzel V.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Experimental Pathology, German Cancer Research Center,
Heidelberg.

Human and bovine fibrinogen as well as fibrin are shown to be phosphorylated by
Co631 (monolayer, hamster) and RPL12 (suspension, chicken) cells by their surface
protein kinase of the casein kinase II type. The phosphate label is introduced
into the alpha-peptide. The kinase system phosphorylates serine residues and
utilizes GTP equally well as ATP. The participation of intact cell surfaces
indicates the possibility of phosphorylation of extracellular fibrinogen
independently of the site of its biosynthesis.


PMID: 2765564  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Mol Gen Genet. 1989 Jun;217(2-3):289-93.

Cloning and molecular characterization of the gene rimL which encodes an enzyme
acetylating ribosomal protein L12 of Escherichia coli K12.

Tanaka S(1), Matsushita Y, Yoshikawa A, Isono K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Kobe University, Japan.

The rimL gene of Escherichia coli K12 encodes an enzyme catalyzing the
acetylation of the N-terminal serine of ribosomal protein L12, thereby converting
it into L7. Using a mutant strain defective in this acetylation reaction, we
cloned the rimL gene into cosmid pHC79 and characterized it at the molecular
level. From analysis by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the proteins
synthesized in maxi-cells containing derivatives of the rimL-harboring plasmid
into which transposon gamma delta had been inserted at various sites, the product
of this gene was identified as a protein with an apparent molecular weight of
20.3 kDa. The nucleotide sequence of the gene and the amino acid sequence deduced
from the nucleotide sequence were compared with those of two other ribosomal
protein acetylases encoded by the rimI and rimJ genes (Yoshikawa et al. 1987). A 
considerable degree of overall similarity was seen between rimL and rimJ, but the
degree of similarity between rimL and rimI was very low. In addition, a short
stretch of similar amino acid sequence was found in all three rim acetylases. The
significance of these results with respect to other acetylating enzymes, in
particular those involved in the acetylation of aminoglycoside antibiotics is
discussed.


PMID: 2671655  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Biochemistry. 1989 Apr 18;28(8):3525-9.

Chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 is encoded in the nucleus: construction and
identification of its cDNA clones and nucleotide sequence including the transit
peptide.

Giese K(1), Subramanian AR.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Abteilung Wittmann, Berlin, West
Germany.

An architectural feature found in all classes of ribosomes is a thin, 10-nm-long 
protuberance in the large subunit, generated by multiple copies of r-protein L12.
The primary structure of spinach chloroplast r-protein L12 is known [Bartsch, M.,
Kimura, M., & Subramanian, A. R. (1982) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 79,
6871-6875], but the location of its gene, whether in the organelle or in the
nucleus, has not been determined. Therefore, we synthesized four
oligodeoxynucleotides based on the amino acid sequence data and used them to
probe a spinach cDNA library we constructed in lambda gt11 vector. cDNA inserts
from four of the hybridizing recombinant clones were characterized and sequenced.
The data showed that they are reverse transcripts of varying length, all derived 
from a single poly(A+) RNA species. The longest cDNA molecule is 900 base pairs
(bp) long and includes a 5' noncoding sequence followed by two neighboring AUG
codons both in the consensus, eukaryotic initiator context, a 56-codon-long
transit peptide sequence (starting from the first AUG codon), the amino acid
sequence of mature L12 protein, and a 238 bp long 3' downstream noncoding
sequence including a polyadenylation signal and the start of the poly(A) tail.
The transit peptide sequence has an unusual amino acid composition similar to
that of other known chloroplast transit peptides. Northern blot analysis of the
poly(A+) RNA isolated from spinach seedlings and probed with the cDNA insert
revealed the occurrence of a strong, broad, 950-nucleotide-long band of the
corresponding poly(A+)-containing mRNA species.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)


PMID: 2568127  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Biol Chem. 1988 May 15;263(14):6538-46.

Primary structure of the archaebacterial Methanococcus vannielii ribosomal
protein L12. Amino acid sequence determination, oligonucleotide hybridization,
and sequencing of the gene.

Strobel O(1), Köpke AK, Kamp RM, Böck A, Wittmann-Liebold B.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Abteilung Wittmann, Berlin, West
Germany.

The primary structure of ribosomal protein L12 from Methanococcus vannielii has
been determined by direct amino acid sequence analysis with automated liquid
phase Edman degradation of the entire protein and manual
4-N,N'-dimethylaminoazobenzene-4'-isothiocyanate/phenylisothiocyanate sequencing 
of fragments obtained by enzymatic digestion and by partial acid hydrolysis. The 
knowledge of the amino acid sequences of these various fragments allowed the
synthesis of two oligonucleotide probes complementary to the 5'- and the 3'-end
of the gene, and they were used for hybridization with digested M. vannielii
chromosomal DNA. Both oligonucleotide probes gave similar and clear hybridization
signals. The plasmid pMvaX1 containing the entire gene of protein L12 was
obtained. The nucleotide sequence complemented the partial amino acid sequence,
and it is in full agreement with the protein sequence and the amino acid
analysis. Comparison of secondary structural elements and hydrophobicity plots of
the M. vannielii protein L12 with the known L12 sequences derived from other
archaebacterial and eukaryotic sources show strong homologies among these
sequences. They contain an exceptional highly conserved hydrophilic sequence area
in the C-terminal part of the proteins. In comparison with eubacterial L12
proteins, the conservation is reduced to single amino acid residues. However, the
eubacterial L12 proteins have hydrophilic regions similar to those of L12 from M.
vannielii. These regions are predicted to be located at the surface of the
proteins, as has been proven to be the case in crystallized Escherichia coli L12 
protein. It is possible that the strongly conserved hydrophilic sequence regions 
form part of the factor-binding domain.


PMID: 2834382  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Biochimie. 1987 Oct;69(10):1043-7.

The structure and dynamics of ribosomal protein L12.

Liljas A(1), Gudkov AT.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Uppsala University, Sweden.

The protein L12 in bacterial ribosomes is essential for the proper function of a 
number of factors involved in protein synthesis. The protein is mostly described 
in terms of a rigid structure despite the repeated observation of high
flexibility. This paper gives a review of the structure and flexibility of L12 in
relation to its function.


PMID: 3126823  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Biochimie. 1987 Oct;69(10):1013-20.

The primary structure of the ribosomal A-protein (L12) from the halophilic
eubacterium Haloanaerobium praevalens.

Matheson AT(1), Louie KA, Tak BD, Zuker M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Microbiology, University of Victoria, BC,
Canada.

The ribosomal A-protein, equivalent to the ribosomal protein L12 from Escherichia
coli, has been sequenced from the anaerobic halophilic eubacterium Haloanaerobium
praevalens (DSM 2228). The protein contains 122 amino acids, has a composition of
Asp6, Asn2, Thr2, Ser6, Glu22, Pro2, Gly13, Ala19, Val12, Met4, Ile5, Leu11,
Phe3, Lys14, Arg1 and has a molecular weight of 12,691. The hydrophilicity
profile was determined for this protein. A phylogenetic or cluster tree was
calculated from computer analysis of the sequence data on eubacterial ribosomal
A-proteins. H. praevalens clusters with a group that includes Bacillus subtilis, 
Micrococcus lysodeikticus, Bacillus stearothermophilus and Clostridium
pasteurianum.


PMID: 3126821  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Biochem Int. 1984 Jan;8(1):69-76.

Computed spatial homology between the L12 protein of chloroplast ribosome and 1.7
A structure of Escherichia coli L12 domain.

Leijonmarck M, Liljas A, Subramanian AR.

A computer-graphic model of the tertiary structure of a functional domain in an
organelle ribosomal protein was generated using the amino acid sequence of
chloroplast ribosomal protein L12 from spinach (Bartsch, Kimura and Subramanian, 
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79, 6871-6875, 1982) and 1.7 A resolution coordinates 
of the E. coli L12 C-terminal fragment crystal (Leijonmarck, Eriksson and Liljas,
Nature 286, 824-826, 1980). A comparison between the model and the experimentally
derived structure shows that although 40% of the primary structure of this part
of the two proteins has undergone amino acid replacements, the gross spatial
structure of the domain is maintained and the character of the surfaces of
possible functional importance are not significantly altered.


PMID: 6383397  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Nucleic Acids Res. 1983 Aug 11;11(15):5277-86.

Maize chloroplast DNA encodes a protein sequence homologous to the bacterial
ribosome assembly protein S4.

Subramanian AR, Steinmetz A, Bogorad L.

A cloned restriction fragment of maize chloroplast DNA (Bam H1 fragment 5) is
shown to contain an open reading frame which encodes a basic protein of 201 amino
acid residues with 40-50% sequence homology to E. coli ribosomal protein S4.
Based on the experimentally determined sequence homology between the highly
conserved bacterial ribosomal protein L12 and its chloroplast homologue (Bartsch 
M., Kimura, M. and Subramanian, A.R. (1982) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79, 6871),
we conclude that this reading frame represents the maize chloroplast S4 gene. The
nucleotide sequence of a 1100 base pair DNA segment containing the putative gene 
is presented.


PMCID: PMC326263
PMID: 6308577  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1982 Nov;79(22):6871-5.

Purification, primary structure, and homology relationships of a chloroplast
ribosomal protein.

Bartsch M(1), Kimura M, Subramanian AR.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Molekulare Genetik, Abteilung Wittmann, Ihnestrasse
63-73, D-1000 Berlin 33, Germany.

A chloroplast ribosomal protein that showed immunological homology to Escherichia
coli ribosomal protein L12 was purified from spinach (Spinacia oleracea) leaves
and its primary structure was determined by manual micro Edman degradation. The
protein is composed of 130 amino acid residues and has M(r) 13,576. It shows
structural features characteristic of the L12 proteins of eubacterial 70S
ribosomes (e.g., identical amino acid residues in about 50% of the sequence) but 
no apparent homology to the L12-type proteins of eukaryotic cytoplasmic 80S
ribosomes. The homology to eubacterial proteins is highest in the COOH-terminal
region (70%) and low in the NH(2)-terminal region (<20%).


PMCID: PMC347235
PMID: 16593249 


82. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1982 Mar;79(5):1466-8.

Use of different tRNASer isoacceptor species in vitro to discriminate between the
expression of plasmid genes.

Cenatiempo Y, Robakis N, Meza-Basso L, Brot N, Weissbach H, Reid BR.

A simplified translation system coupled to DNA transcription that involves
assaying the synthesis of the first dipeptide of a gene product has been
described recently [Robakis, N., Meza-Basso, L., Brot, N. & Weissbach, H. (1981) 
Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78, 4261--4264]. Using this dipeptide system, we have 
investigated the expression of genes carried on plasmids coding for
beta-lactamase, ribosomal protein L12, and the chloroplast large subunit (LS) of 
ribulosebisphosphate carboxylase (RbuBPCase). Although all three nascent gene
products begin with the sequence fMet-Ser, the formation of fMet-Ser can be used 
to distinguish between the synthesis of beta-lactamase and either L12 or the LS
of RbuBPCase by using different serine isoacceptor tRNA species. In
beta-lactamase, the serine codon is AGU, which utilizes the serine isoacceptor
species tRNASer3; in L12 and the LS of RbuBPCase, the serine codewords are UCU
and UCA, respectively, both of which are recognized by the serine isoacceptor
species tRNASer1. By using either pure tRNASer1 or pure tRNASer3, the expression 
of each gene can be quantitated. In this system,
guanosine-5'-diphosphate-3'-diphosphate inhibits the expression of the
beta-lactamase and L12 genes but stimulates the synthesis of the LS. In addition,
the ratio of fMet-Ser/fMet-Ala (L12/L10) synthesized was about 1 as compared with
the ratio of 4 that has been obtained previously in vivo or in vitro
protein-synthesizing systems in which the entire gene product was measured.


PMCID: PMC345994
PMID: 6803242  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Mol Cell Biochem. 1981 Apr 13;36(1):47-63.

Chemistry and biology of E. coli ribosomal protein L12.

Brot N, Weissbach H.

E. coli ribosomal protein L12, because of its unique features, has been studied
in more detail than perhaps any of the other ribosomal proteins. Unlike the other
ribosomal proteins that are generally present in stoichiometric amounts, there
are four copies of L12 per ribosome, some of which are acetylated on the
N-terminal serine. The acetylated species, referred to as L7, has not been shown,
as yet, to possess any different biological activity than L12. A specific enzyme 
that acetylates L12 to form L7, using acetyl-CoA as the acetyl donor, has been
purified from E. coli extracts. L12 is also unique in that it does not contain
cysteine, tryptophan, histidine, or tyrosine, is very acidic (pI: 4.85) and has a
high content of ordered secondary structure (approximately 50%). The protein is
normally found in solution as a dimer and also forms a tight complex with
ribosomal protein L10. There are three methionine residues in L12, located in the
N-terminal region of the protein, one or more of which are essential for
biological activity. Oxidation of the methionines to methionine sulfoxide
prevents dimer formation and inactivates the protein. The four copies of L12 are 
located in the crest region(s) of the 50S ribosomal subunit. There is good
evidence that the soluble factors, such as IF-2, EF-Tu, EF-G and RF, interact
with L12 on the ribosome during the process of protein synthesis. This
interaction is essential for the proper functioning of each of the factors and
for GTP hydrolysis associated with the individual partial reactions of protein
synthesis. The L12 gene is located on an operon that contains the genes for L10
and beta beta' subunits of RNA polymerase at about 88 min on the bacterial
chromosome. DNA-directed in vitro systems have been used to study the unique
regulation of the expression of these genes. Autogenous regulation, translational
control, and transcription attenuation are regulatory mechanisms that function to
control the synthesis of these proteins.


PMID: 7017380  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1981 Apr;78(4):2155-8.

Enzymatic reduction of protein-bound methionine sulfoxide.

Brot N, Weissbach L, Werth J, Weissbach H.

An enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of methionine sulfoxide residues in
ribosomal protein L12 has been partially purified from Escherichia coli extracts.
Methionine sulfoxide present in oxidize [Met]enkephalin is also reduced by the
purified enzyme. The enzyme is different from a previously reported E. coli
enzyme that catalyzes the reduction of methionine sulfoxide to methionine [Ejiri,
S. I., Weissbach, H. & Brot, N. (1980) Anal. Biochem. 102, 393--398]. Extracts of
rat tissues, Euglena gracilis, Tetrahymena pyriformis, HeLa cells, and spinach
also can catalyze the reduction of methionine sulfoxide residues in protein.


PMCID: PMC319302
PMID: 7017726  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Mol Gen Genet. 1981;183(3):473-7.

Ribosomal protein modification in Escherichia coli. III. Studies of mutants
lacking an acetylase activity specific for protein L12.

Isono S, Isono K.

Among mutants of E. coli selected for temperature-sensitive growth, four were
found to possess alterations in ribosomal proteins L7/L12. Of these, three
apparently lack protein L7, the acetylated form of protein L12. Genetic analyses 
have revealed that the mutation responsible for this alteration maps at a locus
around 34 min of the current E. coli genetic map, which is clearly different from
the location for the structural gene for protein L7/L12 which is situated at 89
min. Hence, the gene affected in these mutants was termed rimL. Tryptic and
thermolysin fingerprints of the protein L12 purified from the rimL mutants showed
a profile indistinguishable from that of wild-type protein. It was found that the
assayed in vitro, in the high-speed supernatant prepared from mutant cells. These
results indicated that the three mutants contain mutations in the gene rimL codes
for an acetylating enzyme specific for ribosomal protein L12.


PMID: 7038378  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Bacteriol. 1980 Dec;144(3):904-16.

Characterization of promoter-cloning plasmids: analysis of operon structure in
the rif region of Escherichia coli and isolation of an enhanced internal promoter
mutant.

An G, Friesen JD.

Using the promotor-cloning vehicle described by An and Friesen (J. Bacteriol.
140:400-410, 1979), Escherichia coli chromosomal deoxyribonucleic acid fragments 
derived from the lambda drifd18 transducing phage were cloned in one of several
unique restriction endonuclease sites adjacent to tetracycline(tet) genes that
lack their own promotor. One of these plasmids has been used to isolate nine
variants having mutations that lie in a putative internal promoter which is
located between rplL and rpoB. Deoxyribonucleic acid sequence analysis revealed
that, in all nine mutants, a single base change, C to T, in the ribonucleic acid 
polymerase recognition site led to a large increase in promoter activity.
Analysis of a variety of plasmids in which tet is fused to various promoters
yielded the following results: (i) rplK and rplA, genes for ribosomal protein L11
and L1, respectively, were cotranscribed from a common promoter located upstream 
from rplK; (ii) there was a strong promoter in the region between the rplKA
operon and rplJ, the gene for ribosomal protein L10; (iii) an attenuator region
was located between rplL, the gene for ribosomal protein L12, and rpoB, the gene 
for ribonucleic acid polymerase subunit beta; (iv) transcription terminated
immediately after rpoC, the gene for ribonucleic acid polymerase subunit beta';
(v) a gene coding for unknown protein U, which is located between tufB and the
rplKA operon, had its own promoter; (vi) the tufB gene was separated from all of 
the genes described above and had its own promoter.


PMCID: PMC294752
PMID: 7002914  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1980 May;77(5):2592-5.

Autogenous control of Escherichia coli ribosomal protein L10 synthesis in vitro.

Brot N, Caldwell P, Weissbach H.

The DNA-dependent in vitro synthesis of Escherichia coli ribosomal protein L10
was inhibited when L10 was added to the protein-synthesizing incubations.
Addition of L10 had little or no effect on the synthesis of ribosomal protein
L12, elongation factor Tu (tufB), or the beta and beta' subunits of RNA
polymerase. In addition, ribosomal protein L12 did not inhibit its own synthesis 
or the synthesis of L10. Experiments using a mRNA-directed system showed that the
inhibition of the synthesis of L10 by itself is at the level of translation of
protein synthesis. The mechanism of inhibition does not appear to be due to
increased degradation of L10 mRNA.


PMCID: PMC349448
PMID: 6994102  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1979 Apr;76(4):1716-20.

In vitro regulation of DNA-dependent synthesis of Escherichia coli ribosomal
protein L12.

Goldberg G, Caldwell P, Weissbach H, Brot N.

The DNA of the transducing phage lambdarifd18 contains, among others, the genes
for the ribosomal proteins L11, L1, L10, and L12 and the beta and beta' subunits 
of RNA polymerase (nucleosidetriphosphate:RNA nucleotidyltransferase, EC
2.7.7.6). In a coupled in vitro protein-synthesis system, lambdarifd18 DNA
directs the synthesis of about four to five molecules of L12 per molecule of L10.
This is consistent with the finding that there are four copies of L12 per
ribosome. The ratio of L12/L10 was also examined from an EcoRI fragment of
lambdarifd18 that contains the L10 gene and about 50% of the L12 gene. A
significantly lower ratio of truncated L12/L10 was observed compared to the
intact phage. The binding of RNA polymerase to various lambdarifd18 DNA
restriction fragments was used to locate possible promoter sites. These binding
experiments suggest that the beta and beta' subunits of RNA polymerase are
cotranscribed with at least ribosomal protein L12 and, also, that there may be an
additional promoter site for the L12 gene within the structural gene for L10.


PMCID: PMC383461
PMID: 287012  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1978 Nov;75(11):5349-52.

Oxidation of the methionine residues of Escherichia coli ribosomal protein L12
decreases the protein's biological activity.

Caldwell P, Luk DC, Weissbach H, Brot N.

Oxidation of ribosomal protein L12 with hydrogen peroxide converts the three
methionine residues to methionine sulfoxide. The oxidized protein has a decreased
ability to bind to ribosomes, interact with ribosomal protein L10, be
precipitated by L12 antiserum, and serve as substrate for the acetylating enzyme 
that converts L12 to L7. Full activity of L12 is regained when the protein is
reduced with 2-mercaptoethanol. Sedimentation equilibrium analysis shows that
oxidation of the methionine residues in L12 causes the conversion of the protein 
from the dimer to the monomer form, and the results indicate that the dimer is
the active form of the protein in the above reactions.


PMCID: PMC392960
PMID: 364476  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Eur J Biochem. 1977 Oct 17;80(1):35-41.

Topography of Escherichia coli ribosomal protein L12 in situ.

Hasnain S, Visentin LP.

The ionization constants of each individual free amino group of Escherichia coli 
ribosomal protein L12 as it exists on the native intact 50-S subunit has been
determined. All these amino groups are exposed and have pK values varying from
9.7 to 11.0. The amino terminus, on the other hand, is unreactive and therefore
appears to be buried. In addition, the reactivities indicate that the
aminoterminal region of residues 1--59 undergoes a pH-dependent conformational
change on the 50-S subunit.


PMID: 336367  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1976 Sep;73(9):3156-9.

DNA dependent synthesis of protein L12 from escherichia coli ribosomes, in vitro.

Chu F, Kung HF, Caldwell P, Weissbach H, Brot N.

The in vitro synthesis of ribosomal protein L12 has been obtained in a coupled
system with DNA extracted from the transducing phage lambdarifd18 as template. In
addition, a second protein (molecular weight of 16,000) with immunological,
chemical, and ribosome-binding characteristics similar to L12 is formed in this
in vitro system. The synthesis of both proteins is depressed by one-half when
guanosine-5'-diphosphate-3'-diphosphate is added to the reaction mixture.


PMCID: PMC430964
PMID: 787986  [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1974 May;71(5):2136-40.

Alteration in the acetylation level of ribosomal protein L12 during growth cycle 
of Escherichia coli.

Ramagopal S, Subramanian AR.

The relative content in ribosomes of L7 and L12, the two forms of a protein in
the 50S subunit specifically involved in GTP hydrolysis, is found to undergo a
striking shift with the growth phase of E. coli. The content of L12
(nonacetylated form) increases during early logarithmic phase, becoming about 85%
of the total before midlogarithmic phase. Thereafter, L7 (N-acetylated form)
content begins to increase, eventually becoming 75-80% in stationary phase. The
L7 + L12 content per ribosome, however, remained constant during this shift. Our 
evidence suggests that the shift did not occur through modification of
preexisting ribosomes. The data further indicate that the E. coli cell may
contain more than one structurally distinct (with regard to L7 or L12 content)
50S subunit population.


PMCID: PMC388402
PMID: 4600787  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

